risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on us and on the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. u.s. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010 and 13 million units in 2011. for the 19 markets we track in europe, automotive industry sales volume declined from 18.1 million units in 2007 to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009, and 15.3 million units in 2010 and 2011. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the "overview" section of item 7. decline in market share or failure to achieve growth. our full-year u.s. market share declined each year between 1995 and 2008, declining from 18% to 14.2% from 2004 to 2008 alone. with our one ford plan, we have seen u.s. market share gains in the last three years. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, however, we also must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in asia pacific, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets. a decline in our market share in mature markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, or other factors, or failure to achieve growth in newly-developed or emerging markets, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond our current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, when gasoline prices in the united states spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles. we estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, and a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2012 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 22 million units in 2011. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, particularly in the u.s. and european markets. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects on our operations resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the middle east or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. in 2012, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ("euro area countries") and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or - in a more extreme circumstance - the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario - or the perception that such a development is imminent - could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. in recent years, the automotive industry supply base has experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress as production volumes decreased during the economic downturn in 2008 - 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. as indicated, we negotiated a new four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and will negotiate a new agreement with the caw in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, the agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. we have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ("opeb") for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ("erisa"). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. at december 31, 2011, our u.s. and worldwide (including u.s.) defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $9.4 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change." section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("tax attributes"). at december 31, 2011 we had tax attributes that would offset $15.6 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. restructuring actions we took in 2009, including our exchange of ford common stock for convertible debt and our public issuance of additional ford common stock, contributed significantly to the collective increase in ownership by 5 percent shareholders. at present, 5 percent shareholders may have collectively increased their ownership by about 20 percentage points. in september 2009, we implemented a tax benefit preservation plan (the "plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. although the plan presently is scheduled to expire in september 2012, we intend to extend the plan. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. further, adverse publicity surrounding actual or alleged safety-related or other defects could damage our reputation and adversely affect sales of our products. increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "governmental standards" discussion in item 1 above. in addition to governmental regulations, a number of influential organizations conduct public domain testing. even as we continue to evolve our product line, aggressive changes in public domain testing requirements could have a negative influence on future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal law and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation of a defect, regulatory violation or other matter (with or without corresponding litigation or governmental investigation) may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. 20 item 1a. risk factors (continued) a change in our requirements where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain or increase investment, workforce or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of the accounting for government incentives, and "item 3. legal proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by us or a third-party vendor, or at a supplier facility. interruptions, outages, or breaches of operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, data processing, in-vehicle, or manufacturing processes), security systems, or infrastructure, as a result of cyber incidents, could materially disrupt critical operations, disclose confidential intellectual property, and/or give rise to allegations of or result in a breach of data privacy or other regulations within or outside the united states. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities. under our secured credit agreement dated december 15, 2006, as amended and restated on november 24, 2009 and as further amended ("credit agreement"), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $8.9 billion until the facility terminates. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. in 2005 and 2006, the credit ratings assigned to ford credit were lowered to below investment grade, which increased its unsecured borrowing costs and restricted its access to the unsecured debt markets. in response, ford credit increased its use of securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and other sources of funding. although ford credit has experienced several credit rating upgrades in the past two years and its credit spreads have narrowed considerably, its credit ratings remain below investment grade and ford credit still utilizes asset-backed securitization transactions for a substantial amount of its funding. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of 21 item 1a. risk factors (continued) receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could substantially adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could substantially adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ("act") in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the new consumer financial protection bureau broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the federal deposit insurance corporation ("fdic") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the act, and, consequently, the effects of the act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for years. the act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on ford credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" ("item 7a") for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we currently have approximately 17,660 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe that these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage and additional service actions. we currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and the geographic location of its sale. in compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with the warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 30 of the notes to the financial statements. 4 item 1. business (continued) industry sales volume industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe. the following chart shows industry sales volume for the last five years for certain key markets in each region, and for the total we track within each of our ford north america, ford south america, ford europe, and ford asia pacific africa regions (in millions of units): industry sales volume (a) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 united states 13.0 11.8 10.6 13.5 16.5 canada 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.7 1.7 mexico 0.9 0.8 0.8 1.1 1.1 ford north america 15.5 14.2 12.9 16.3 19.3 brazil 3.6 3.5 3.1 2.8 2.5 argentina 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.6 ford south america (b) 5.4 5.0 4.2 4.3 4.1 britain 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.5 2.8 germany 3.5 3.2 4.0 3.4 3.5 ford europe (c) 15.3 15.3 15.9 16.6 18.0 turkey 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.6 russia 2.7 2.0 1.5 3.1 2.7 china 18.4 18.3 14.1 9.9 9.1 india 3.3 3.1 2.3 2.0 2.0 australia 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.1 south africa 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.6 asean (d) 2.6 2.4 1.9 2.0 1.8 ford asia pacific africa (e) 30.4 30.7 24.5 20.9 20.4 ______________ (a) throughout this report, industry sales volume and wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks. (b) ford south america industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the six markets we track in the region (i.e., argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela). (c) ford europe industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19 markets we track (i.e., austria, belgium, britain, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, spain, sweden, and switzerland); sales of ford-brand vehicles in turkey and russia by our unconsolidated affiliates ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ("ford otosan") and ford sollers netherlands b.v. ("fordsollers"), respectively, contribute to ford europe's wholesale unit volumes, but are not reflected in industry sales volume or market share for the region. (d) asean includes indonesia, malaysia, philippines, thailand, and vietnam. (e) ford asia pacific africa industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales for the 12 markets we track (i.e., australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand, and vietnam); market share data for 2008 to the present include local-brand vehicles produced by our chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ("jmc"). 5 item 1. business (continued) ford north america the following tables show our wholesales and market share by market in north america: wholesales (a) (in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 united states 2,224 1,947 1,563 1,825 2,363 canada 273 278 223 198 243 mexico 88 88 80 134 140 ford north america (b) 2,686 2,413 1,927 2,329 2,890 ______________ (a) throughout this report, wholesale unit volumes include all ford-badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers and units distributed for other manufacturers, and jmc-brand vehicles. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford-badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, and jmc-brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes. (b) throughout this report, regional wholesale unit volumes include wholesales to various export markets. market share (a) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 united states 16.5 % 16.4 % 15.3 % 14.2 % 14.6 % canada 17.1 % 16.9 % 15.2 % 12.6 % 13.3 % mexico 9.4 % 10.5 % 11.8 % 12.1 % 13.3 % ______________ (a) throughout this report, market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market (as opposed to wholesale unit volumes reflecting sales directly by us to our customers, generally our dealers); market share data also exclude volvo. united states. the competitive environment in the united states continues to intensify as foreign manufacturers increase imports to the united states and production capacity in north america. overall, we see a long-term industry trend toward smaller and more fuel-efficient vehicles, and we believe the long-term trend of growth in the u.s. small car segment remains intact. the small car segment has increased its share from 14% in 2004 to 20.6% in 2009 - one of the most significant segment shifts in the industry. although small cars dipped to 18.8% of industry in 2010, the segment grew again in 2011, increasing to 19.1% of total industry. at the same time, our sales of small cars at ford were up 25% in 2011, giving us 10% share of the small car segment and more than a full percentage point increase compared to 2010 - our best share in the u.s. small car segment since 2003. small car-based utilities were another of the fastest growing u.s. industry segments in 2011, increasing to 13.7% of industry compared with 8.2% in 2004. our escape small utility was the best-selling utility in america last year, and 2011 was our best sales year for escape since the vehicle was introduced in 2000. the mid-size utility vehicle segment represents the largest segment within the utility category. this segment continues to grow, albeit at a slower pace than the small utility segment. in 2011, the mid-size utility segment represented 14.5% of total vehicles sales. this compares to 13% in 2004. the majority of the segment is now represented by uni-body platforms, as opposed to body-on-frame platforms commonly in use 10 years ago. sales for our all-new uni-body explorer were up 124% year-over-year for 2011. although the full-size pickup segment also has begun to grow in share of total industry again, we believe we will need to see a continued and sustainable recovery in the construction industry (including new housing starts) in order to see the full-size pickup segment increase significantly as a percentage of total industry sales. with the full-size pickup segment at 10.7% of industry in 2009, 11.6% in 2010, and unchanged in 2011, we believe the segment is still in its initial phase of a cyclical recovery. the peak year for full-size pickup trucks was 2004, with 14.7% of total industry. within the full-size pickup truck segment, our f-series retains strong market leadership. our strong u.s. vehicle sales in 2011 reflect our balanced portfolio of fuel-efficient vehicles. our results marked the third consecutive year-over-year that our overall u.s. market share has increased, with the improvement driven in large measure by our new fiesta small car and escape and explorer utilities. the data above include both retail and fleet sales. fleet includes sales to commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments; in general, fleet sales tend to be less profitable than retail sales. in 2011, fleet sales were 32% of our total sales; the majority was with commercial and government customers, which are more profitable than daily rentals. in 2011, our daily rental business was 12% of total sales, lower than the industry average of 13%. as the leading manufacturer of commercial vehicles in the united states, commercial buyers are increasingly choosing ford cars and crossovers because of our improved resale values, and continue to favor ford trucks and vans. 6 item 1. business (continued) canada. industry sales volume in canada grew 3% in 2011 compared with the prior year. within that total, truck sales increased by 1.6 percentage points to 56% of overall industry vehicle sales, while car sales decreased to 44% of industry sales volume. our sales growth in the market earned ford canada the sales leadership title for the second year in a row. strong sales in 2011 primarily reflected increased sales of cars, which gained 14% over the prior year, in addition to our already strong truck sales performance. in 2011, ford canada earned segment leadership with fusion, mustang, escape, explorer, ranger, f-150, and super duty. mexico. industry sales volume in mexico grew 10% during 2011. segmentation shifts in the industry away from trucks and utilities and toward cars contributed to our share decline. fleet sales also decreased in the last year as a result of government and commercial segment cutbacks. our plans for near-term market share growth include new model launches - including in the fastest-growing segment, small cars. ford south america as indicated, we track industry sales and market share for six markets in south america - argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela. ford south america's wholesales are more inclusive, tracking ford-brand vehicles in every market in the region. brazil and argentina are our highest-volume south american markets. in particular, brazil's economy and demographics, with growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates, and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002. these favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in brazil. the following tables show our wholesales and market share in the largest markets and in total: wholesales (in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 brazil 346 358 336 297 258 argentina 105 85 66 77 77 ford south america 506 489 443 435 438 market share 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 brazil 9.8 % 10.4 % 10.3 % 10.0 % 10.8 % argentina 12.9 12.4 13.3 12.4 13.7 ford south america 9.3 9.8 10.2 9.7 10.7 the competition in brazil is intensifying, as a number of automotive manufacturers are bringing online substantial capacity increases in the market. the intensifying competitive environment is putting pressure on industry net pricing; our plans to leverage fully our one ford plan, including the introduction of an all-new lineup of global products over the next two years, beginning in the second half of 2012, should benefit us in this market. ford europe the automotive industry in europe is intensely competitive, and expected to intensify further as japanese and korean manufacturers increase production capacity in the region and manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., bmw, mercedes-benz and audi) continue to broaden product offerings. as indicated, we track industry and market share in europe for the following 19 markets: austria, belgium, britain, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, spain, sweden, and switzerland. ford europe's wholesales are more inclusive, tracking ford-brand vehicles in every market in the region, including those wholesales in turkey and russia from our unconsolidated affiliates, ford otosan and fordsollers. wholesales (in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ford europe 1,602 1,573 1,568 1,820 1,918 market share 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ford europe 8.3 % 8.4 % 9.1 % 8.6% 8.5 % 7 item 1. business (continued) within the 19 markets we track, britain and germany are our highest-volume markets. any change in the british or german market has a significant effect on the results of ford europe. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for britain and germany (which are included within the 19 markets data above): wholesales (in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 britain 342 341 354 415 414 germany 250 216 286 250 230 market share 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 britain 15.0 % 15.0 % 16.8% 16.4 % 15.9 % germany 7.4 6.9 7.6 7.0 6.7 britain. industry sales volume in britain began to decline in 2008 with the global financial crisis, and since 2003 has remained in the 2.2 million - 2.3 million unit range (compared with 2.8 million units in 2007). our market share remained steady in 2011 compared with the prior year, with ford continuing as the market share leader in the britain. unusually high market share in 2009 was driven by the launch of the popular ford ka and ford fiesta small cars, coincident with the implementation of a government vehicle scrappage program designed to stimulate vehicle sales. germany. with 3.5 million new vehicle registrations in 2011, germany's industry sales volume grew by 9.6% compared with the prior year. germany was the only major market in europe to experience an increase in industry sales volume in 2011, and remains the largest vehicle market in the european union. in 2011, both passenger car and commercial vehicle industry sales recovered along with the growing economy. in 2011, ford was the fastest growing manufacturer (with vehicle unit sales up 17.6% compared with the prior year), and increased market share by more than half of a percentage point primarily driven by the success of new ford focus, c-max, and s-max, as well as record sales of ford transit vehicles. turkey and russia. although not included in the results for the 19 european markets discussed above, turkey and russia also contribute to our ford europe segment results. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for turkey and russia for the last five years: wholesales (in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 turkey 140 130 79 78 100 russia 124 93 74 183 180 market share 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 turkey 15.8 % 15.8 % 15.1 % 14.7 % 16.8 % russia 4.3 4.6 5.5 6.1 6.5 turkey. industry growth slowed in 2008 as a result of the global financial crisis. beginning in 2009, industry vehicle sales accelerated due to government incentives put in place, with significant continuous increase in the last two years (from nearly 800,000 vehicle unit sales in 2010 to just over 900,000 vehicle unit sales in 2011). as shown above, our 2011 wholesales surpassed pre-crisis levels, and our market share has increased in recent years. russia. following a 50% contraction in 2009 as a result of the impact of the global financial crisis reaching russia, industry sales volume has returned almost to pre-crisis levels, with industry sales volume of 2.7 million units in 2011. russia is the second-largest market for vehicle sales in europe, and is expected to become the largest over the next several years. our sales grew by 30% in 2011, led by strong sales of the new focus and transit. as previously reported, our russian operations became part of the new fordsollers joint venture which began operations in october 2011. we expect this joint venture to contribute to our ability to continue to grow profitably in this rapidly expanding market. 8 item 1. business (continued) motor vehicle distribution in europe. in 2009, the european commission abolished the 2002 block exemption law that had been specific to vehicle distribution agreements, and adopted instead a new generic regulation applying to all manufacturer-distributor relationships. the new law represents a marked improvement for manufacturers, and we have concluded new agreements with our dealers reflecting most of the improvements that will enter into effect on june 1, 2013. ford asia pacific africa ford asia pacific africa industry sales and market share data focus on our 12 major markets in the region; wholesales are more inclusive, tracking every market in the region. of the markets we track in this region, asean, australia, china, india, and south africa are our principal markets. small cars account for 60% of asia pacific africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government policy. we anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars. the highly successful launches of our all-new figo and fiesta demonstrate our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments. we anticipate further success with the introduction of the all-new ecosport later in 2012. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for key markets and in total for the last five years: wholesales (in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 china 519 483 345 251 203 india 96 84 30 29 39 australia 83 104 92 102 108 south africa 49 45 38 51 61 asean 74 51 38 36 39 ford asia pacific africa 901 838 604 532 535 market share 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 china 2.7 % 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.6 % 2.1 % india 2.9 2.6 1.3 1.4 1.9 australia 9.0 9.2 10.3 10.3 10.3 south africa 8.4 7.7 7.6 6.9 7.6 asean 2.7 1.5 1.6 1.5 2.0 ford asia pacific africa 2.7 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.3 china and india are burgeoning markets that are expected to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in the next ten years, driving new economic growth in the asia pacific africa region. accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region. we are building seven new plants - four in china, two in india, and one in thailand - as part of our plan to have production capacity of 2.3 million vehicles in the region by mid-decade. these new state-of-the-art highly-flexible manufacturing facilities will help us reach the goal of increasing worldwide sales to about 8 million vehicles per year by mid-decade. in china, we also are significantly expanding our research and engineering center in nanjing as part of our plan to accelerate our growth in china and in the asia pacific region. 9 item 1. business (continued) financial services sector ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford motor credit company llc ("ford credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from: payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries on special-rate financing programs; and payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two segments "consumer" and "non-consumer." finance receivables and leases in the consumer segment relate to products offered to individuals and to businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. the financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer segment relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership facilities, for working capital, and for purchase of dealership real estate. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily in connection with the sale of parts and accessories. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through regional business centers. outside of the united states, fce bank plc ("fce") is ford credit's largest operation; europe is fce's largest market. within europe, fce's largest and most profitable markets are germany and the united kingdom. about 70% of fce's finance and lease receivables are from fce's customers and ford dealers in germany, the united kingdom, and france; about 17% are from fce's customers and ford dealers in italy and spain; and about 2% are from fce's customers and ford dealers in greece, ireland, and portugal. fce, through its worldwide trade financing division, also provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. ford credit's share of retail financing for new ford and lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the united states and new ford vehicles sold by dealers in europe, as well as its share of wholesale financing for new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe were: united states years ended december 31, financing share ford and lincoln 2011 2010 2009 retail installment and lease 36 % 32 % 29 % wholesale 80 81 79 europe financing share ford retail installment and lease 29 % 26 % 28 % wholesale 99 99 99 see item 7 and notes 7, 8, and 9 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for a discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. in november 2008, we entered into an amended and restated support agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if its managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. in addition, ford credit has an agreement to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement in 2001 - 2011. 10 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: mobile source emissions control u.s. requirements - federal emissions standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. the current ("tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") set standards for cars and light trucks. tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). epa also has stringent emissions standards and requirements for epa-defined "heavy-duty" vehicles and engines (generally, those vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds to 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight). in order to meet the standards for heavy-duty diesel trucks, ford and most other manufacturers use selective catalytic reduction ("scr") systems, which require periodic customer maintenance. epa has issued guidance regarding maintenance intervals and warning systems that must be used to alert motorists to the need for maintenance of scr systems. one heavy-duty engine manufacturer that does not rely on scr technology has filed two lawsuits in federal court challenging: 1) epa's decision to certify vehicles with scr systems, and 2) the appropriateness of epa's certification test procedures for heavy-duty vehicles. the former suit was dismissed at the district court level but may be appealed; no ruling has been issued yet in the latter suit. the same manufacturer also has filed suit in california state court challenging the certification of scr-equipped vehicles by the california air resources board ("carb"). the engine manufacturers association, a trade association to which we belong, has intervened in that litigation on the side of carb; the suit currently is in the discovery phase. if the courts direct epa or carb to reconsider certification of vehicles with scr systems, or if agencies impose additional restrictions on our ability to use scr technology, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce and sell heavy-duty diesel vehicles. u.s. requirements - california and other state emissions standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california may seek a waiver from epa to establish unique vehicle emissions control standards; each new or modified proposal requires a new waiver of preemption from epa. california has received a waiver from epa to establish its own unique emissions control standards for certain regulated pollutants. new vehicles and engines sold in california must be certified by carb; carb's current low-emission vehicle ("lev ii") emissions standards treat most light-duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet stringent new emissions requirements. like epa's tier 2 emissions standards, carb's lev ii emissions standards present a difficult engineering challenge. the california program includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ("zevs") that emit no regulated pollutants. the current zev regulations allow certain advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions to qualify for zev credits. the rules also give some zev credits for so-called "partial zero-emission vehicles" ("pzevs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. the current rules require increasing volumes of battery-electric and other advanced technology vehicles with each passing model year. we plan to comply with the zev regulations through the sale of a variety of battery-electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and pzevs. our compliance plan entails significant costs, and has a variety of inherent risks, including potential component shortages that may make it difficult to produce vehicles in sufficient quantities. the clean air act also permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt california's motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year. in addition to california, fourteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards for current and/or future model years (and eleven of these states also have adopted the zev requirements). these states, together with california, account for more than 30% of our current u.s. light-duty vehicle sales volume. it is possible that additional states may adopt the california standards in the future. the adoption of california standards by other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including: 1) managing fleet average emissions standards and zev mandate requirements on a state-by-state basis, which presents difficulties from the standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some vehicles required by the zev program varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) states adopting the california program have not adopted california's clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles in other states to meet california's in-use standards. 11 item 1. business (continued) carb is in the process of revising its lev and zev regulations. in december 2011, carb issued its proposed "lev iii" rules, setting standards for emissions of smog-forming pollutants (as well as greenhouse gases ("ghgs"), which are discussed in the "motor vehicle fuel economy" section below). the proposed new standards would begin phasing in with the 2015 model year and extend through the 2025 model year. the major elements of the lev iii program are new, more stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards for light- and medium-duty vehicles; extended durability requirements; and changes to the certification test procedures, requiring manufacturers to certify vehicles on fuel containing 10% ethanol. carb also issued proposed new zev regulations covering model years 2015 - 2025. the amendments for model years 2015 - 2017 represent relatively modest changes to existing requirements. for model years 2018 - 2025, carb is proposing to require substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with the revised lev iii and zev regulations likely will require costly actions that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volume and profits. the lev iii proposal presents a significant engineering challenge for manufacturers, who will need to design new emissions after-treatment systems in order to comply. the proposed zev rules pose an even greater obstacle, requiring intensive planning efforts and large capital investments in order to deliver the required number of advanced-technology vehicles. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, particularly in the 2018 - 2025 model years. we also are concerned about potential enforcement of the proposed zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. we are working with carb directly and through the alliance of automobile manufacturers ("alliance") in an effort to promote regulations that are reasonable and technologically feasible, and we have submitted comments on the proposed lev iii and zev rules. the industry also is negotiating with states that have adopted california's zev rules in an effort to reach agreement on an alternative zev program for those states. european requirements. european union ("eu") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new emissions standards ("stage iv standards") were applied to new passenger car certifications beginning in 2005, and to new registrations beginning in 2006. the comparable light commercial truck stage iv standards went into effect for new certifications beginning in 2006, and for new registrations beginning in 2007. this directive on emissions also introduced on-board diagnostic requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements, and in-service compliance testing and recall provisions for emissions-related defects that occur in the first five years or 100,000 kilometers of vehicle life. failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. stage v emissions requirements began for vehicle registrations starting in january 2011; stage vi requirements will apply from september 2014. stage v particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and stage vi further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen. this will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. these technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles. vehicles equipped with scr systems require a driver inducement and warning system for maintenance or repair. the stage v/vi emission legislation also mandated internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related), and provision of information to diagnostic tool manufacturers. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ("un-ece") mobile source emissions regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china plans to adopt the most recent european standards to be implemented starting from 2012 in large cities. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. because fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems may have to be redesigned to meet the requirements in these markets. furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. japan has unique standards and test procedures, and implemented more stringent standards beginning in 2009. this may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the japanese market. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. federal tier 2 requirements. 12 item 1. business (continued) in south america, brazil, argentina and chile are introducing more stringent emissions standards. brazil approved euro v emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; more stringent light vehicle limits come into effect in 2012. argentina has approved euro v standards for 2012. chile approved a new decontamination plan for its metropolitan region with more stringent emission requirements based on u.s. or eu regulations. motor vehicle fuel economy there are ever-increasing demands from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of reasons including energy security and reduced ghg emissions. our ability to comply with a given set of fuel economy standards (including ghg emissions standards, which are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards) depends on a variety of factors, including: 1) prevailing economic conditions, including fluctuations in fuel prices; 2) alignment of standards with actual consumer demand for vehicles; and 3) adequate lead time to make necessary product changes. consumer demand for vehicles tends to fluctuate based on a variety of external factors. consumers are more likely to pay for vehicles with fuel-efficient technologies (such as hybrid-electric vehicles) when the economy is robust, and when fuel prices are relatively high. when the economy is in recession and/or fuel prices are relatively low, many consumers may put off new vehicle purchases altogether, and among those who do purchase vehicles, demand for higher-cost fuel technologies is not likely to be strong. if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, high-performance, and/or feature-laden, while regulatory standards require production of vehicles that are smaller and more economical, the mismatch of supply and demand would have an adverse effect on both regulatory compliance and our profitability. moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average ghg emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the necessary technology can be developed). u.s. requirements - light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light-duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ("cafe") standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ("nhtsa"). a manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively. california also has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and a 2007 u.s. supreme court decision paved the way for epa to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions under the clean air act. the potential for three sets of overlapping and conflicting regulations led to the establishment of the federal "one national program," pursuant to which epa and nhtsa have promulgated regulations establishing a harmonized national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light-duty vehicles for the 2012 - 2016 model years. california has amended its regulations to provide that manufacturers who comply with "one national program" regulations will be deemed to comply with the california ghg regulations. the 2012 - 2016 federal ghg and fuel economy standards are very challenging. they require new light-duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the cafe program. carb has adopted modifications to its ghg regulations consistent with these standards. we believe that we will be able to comply with the harmonized federal cafe/ghg standards for the 2012 - 2016 model years, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy that we built into our cycle plan, and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms. in contrast, we had projected that we would be unable to comply with the state ghg standards that had been in place for the 2012 - 2016 period without undertaking costly product restrictions in some states. key differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program include: 1) one national program standards, although very stringent, do not ramp up as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and 2) one national program allows us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales. the ability to average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a critical element for us and for the automotive industry. the 2012-2016 model year one national program rules currently are being challenged in federal court by entities concerned about the ramifications of these rules on stationary source regulation. the automotive industry has intervened in the litigation in support of maintaining the existing one national program rules. in november 2011, epa and nhtsa jointly issued proposed rules to extend the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. the proposed rules would require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light-duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 45 miles per gallon ("mpg") by the 2021 model year, and approximately 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year, assuming all of the co 2 emissions reductions are achieved through the deployment of fuel economy technology. this represents a reduction of roughly 5% per year in co 2 emissions from passenger cars for the 2017 - 2025 model years. for light trucks, the proposed standards represent a reduction in co 2 emissions of about 3.5% per year for model years 2017 - 2021, and about 5% per year for model years 2022 - 2025. each manufacturer's 13 item 1. business (continued) specific task would depend on the mix of vehicles it sells. the proposed rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the proposal includes a mid-term evaluation process under which epa and nhtsa will re-evaluate their standards for model year 2022 - 2025 by 2018 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. ford and the alliance have filed extensive comments on the proposal. epa and nhtsa are expected to issue final rules in 2012, and shortly thereafter carb is expected to modify its regulations to provide that compliance with the federal program satisfies compliance with california's requirements for the 2017 - 2025 model years. while the proposed rules are challenging, we believe they are feasible in light of our product plans and projected market conditions. it is important that the final rules retain the key elements of the proposal, such as the compliance flexibilities and the mid-term review evaluation process. provided the final rules are acceptable, we believe it is in our interest to continue with one national program rather than re-engage in disputes with california (and other states that use the california standards) over the right to enforce state-specific ghg standards. if the final rules promulgated by epa and nhtsa deviate materially from the proposed rules, or if the agencies are forced to modify the rules as a result of litigation, it still is possible that the one national program framework may not continue in the 2017 - 2025 model years. under this scenario, there likely would be a return to conflicting state and federal regimes for regulating fuel economy and ghg emissions beginning with the 2017 model year. compliance with both regimes would at best add enormous complexity to our planning processes, and at worst could be virtually impossible. if either of these regulatory regimes impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or ghg standards, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. these actions might need to occur on a state-by-state basis, in response to the rules adopted by california and other states, or at the national level if the federal standards are excessively stringent. u.s. requirements - heavy-duty vehicles. in 2011, epa and nhtsa promulgated final regulations imposing, for the first time, ghg and fuel economy standards on heavy-duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating). in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. these standards will be challenging, but we believe we will be able to comply. epa and nhtsa are expected to issue a new round of standards for these vehicles covering the 2019 model year and beyond; as the standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy-duty trucks. the 2014 - 2018 heavy-duty ghg rules are being challenged in federal court by entities other than truck and engine manufacturers. remand or rejection by the court could have a substantial adverse impact on our future production and sale of heavy-duty vehicles, depending on the court's specific order and agencies' response. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 g/km, using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. a penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from 5 to 95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 - 2018, and 95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden. further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. for 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. this target will be further detailed in a review in 2013. other non-eu european countries are likely to follow with similar regulations. for example, switzerland is introducing similar rules, phasing-in beginning in july 2012 with the same targets, although the industry average emission target is significantly higher. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements based on past performance beginning in the second half of 2012. in separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" have been mandated (for example, tire-related and gearshift indicator requirements), and more mandates are expected. these include requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission, council and parliament are close to formally approving a target for commercial light-duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 - 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020. this regulation also would provide different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for so-called "multi-stage vehicles" (e.g., our transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) 14 item 1. business (continued) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, "super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. the standards track the new u.s. cafe standards for the 2011 model year and u.s. epa ghg regulations for the 2012 - 2016 model years. the canadian federal government now has published a notice of intent to maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 - 2025 model years. in december 2009, quebec also enacted province-specific regulations setting fleet average ghg standards for the 2010 - 2016 model years effective january 2010. now that the canadian federal regulation is in place, the quebec government has amended the quebec regulation to recognize equivalency with the federal standards; reporting of quebec fleet performance still is required. some asian countries (such as china, japan, india, south korea, and taiwan) also have adopted fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 that are more stringent than the 2010 targets, with incentives for early adoption. china implemented second-stage fuel economy targets from 2008, and is working on the third stage for 2012 phase-in. all of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light vehicles with spark ignition engine. chile also will adopt a fuel-consumption and emissions-labeling system. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. motor vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the "safety act") regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. foreign requirements. the eu and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced un-ece regulations, which will be will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. these technologies have been implemented in europe with final regulation and implementing measures having become available in late 2011. globally, governments generally have been adopting eu-based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. the difference between north american and eu-based regulations adds complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles; we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance. new recall requirements in asia pacific africa also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. pollution control costs during the period 2012 through 2016, we expect to spend about $160 million on our facilities in the americas and europe to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period. of this total, we currently estimate we will spend between $30 million and $35 million in each of 2012 and 2013, respectively. specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult. 15 item 1. business (continued) employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in thousands): 2011 2010 automotive ford north america 75 75 ford south america 16 15 ford europe 47 49 ford asia pacific africa 19 18 financial services ford credit 7 7 total 164 164 while our overall employment remained steady, ford europe experienced reductions related largely to the transfer of russian operations to our fordsollers unconsolidated joint venture, offset partially by increases in emerging markets to support increased production. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ("uaw" or "united auto workers"). approximately two percent of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2011, we entered into a new four-year collective bargaining agreement with the uaw. the agreement covers approximately 41,000 employees, and maintains our progress on improving competitiveness in the united states. excluding profit-sharing, compensation-related terms - including lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure - are expected to increase u.s. hourly labor costs by less than 1% annually over the four-year contract period. we also expect this increase will be more than offset by more flexible work rules that will allow us to increase manufacturing utilization and efficiency. in 2011, we also negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, brazil, france, mexico, new zealand, russia, taiwan, and thailand. in 2012, we will negotiate a new agreement in canada with the national automobile, aerospace, transportation and general workers union of canada ("caw"), as well as labor unions in argentina, australia, brazil, britain, france, germany, mexico, romania, taiwan and turkey. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. we maintain extensive engineering, research, and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in dearborn, michigan; dunton, england; and aachen and merkenich, germany. most of our engineering, research, and development relates to our automotive sector. engineering, research, and development expenses for 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $5.3 billion, $5 billion, and $4.7 billion, respectively (2009 data adjusted to reflect the impact of the accounting standard on consolidation of variable interest entities ("vies")). 16 item 1a. risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on us and on the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. u.s. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010 and 13 million units in 2011. for the 19 markets we track in europe, automotive industry sales volume declined from 18.1 million units in 2007 to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009, and 15.3 million units in 2010 and 2011. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the "overview" section of item 7. decline in market share or failure to achieve growth. our full-year u.s. market share declined each year between 1995 and 2008, declining from 18% to 14.2% from 2004 to 2008 alone. with our one ford plan, we have seen u.s. market share gains in the last three years. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, however, we also must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in asia pacific, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets. a decline in our market share in mature markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, or other factors, or failure to achieve growth in newly-developed or emerging markets, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond our current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, when gasoline prices in the united states spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles. we estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, and a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2012 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 22 million units in 2011. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, particularly in the u.s. and european markets. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects on our operations resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the middle east or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. in 2012, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ("euro area countries") and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or - in a more extreme circumstance - the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario - or the perception that such a development is imminent - could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. in recent years, the automotive industry supply base has experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress as production volumes decreased during the economic downturn in 2008 - 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. as indicated, we negotiated a new four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and will negotiate a new agreement with the caw in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, the agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. we have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ("opeb") for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ("erisa"). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. at december 31, 2011, our u.s. and worldwide (including u.s.) defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $9.4 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change." section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("tax attributes"). at december 31, 2011 we had tax attributes that would offset $15.6 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. restructuring actions we took in 2009, including our exchange of ford common stock for convertible debt and our public issuance of additional ford common stock, contributed significantly to the collective increase in ownership by 5 percent shareholders. at present, 5 percent shareholders may have collectively increased their ownership by about 20 percentage points. in september 2009, we implemented a tax benefit preservation plan (the "plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. although the plan presently is scheduled to expire in september 2012, we intend to extend the plan. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. further, adverse publicity surrounding actual or alleged safety-related or other defects could damage our reputation and adversely affect sales of our products. increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "governmental standards" discussion in item 1 above. in addition to governmental regulations, a number of influential organizations conduct public domain testing. even as we continue to evolve our product line, aggressive changes in public domain testing requirements could have a negative influence on future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal law and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation of a defect, regulatory violation or other matter (with or without corresponding litigation or governmental investigation) may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. 20 item 1a. risk factors (continued) a change in our requirements where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain or increase investment, workforce or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of the accounting for government incentives, and "item 3. legal proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by us or a third-party vendor, or at a supplier facility. interruptions, outages, or breaches of operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, data processing, in-vehicle, or manufacturing processes), security systems, or infrastructure, as a result of cyber incidents, could materially disrupt critical operations, disclose confidential intellectual property, and/or give rise to allegations of or result in a breach of data privacy or other regulations within or outside the united states. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities. under our secured credit agreement dated december 15, 2006, as amended and restated on november 24, 2009 and as further amended ("credit agreement"), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $8.9 billion until the facility terminates. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. in 2005 and 2006, the credit ratings assigned to ford credit were lowered to below investment grade, which increased its unsecured borrowing costs and restricted its access to the unsecured debt markets. in response, ford credit increased its use of securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and other sources of funding. although ford credit has experienced several credit rating upgrades in the past two years and its credit spreads have narrowed considerably, its credit ratings remain below investment grade and ford credit still utilizes asset-backed securitization transactions for a substantial amount of its funding. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of 21 item 1a. risk factors (continued) receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could substantially adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could substantially adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ("act") in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the new consumer financial protection bureau broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the federal deposit insurance corporation ("fdic") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the act, and, consequently, the effects of the act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for years. the act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on ford credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. 22 item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities, although many of these properties have been pledged to secure indebtedness or other obligations. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 54% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 99% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. many of the facilities, as well as most of the machinery and equipment, that we own and operate in the united states have been pledged to secure our obligations under the credit agreement. for discussion of the credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. as in the united states, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and sales offices used by our automotive segments as of december 31, 2011 are shown in the table below: segment plants distribution centers/ warehouses engineering, research/ development sales offices ford north america 35 (a) 30 45 60 ford south america 8 3 1 8 ford europe 14 7 4 25 ford asia pacific africa 12 1 6 17 total 69 41 56 110 ____________ (a) we have announced plans to close a number of north american facilities as part of our restructuring actions; facilities that have been closed to date are not included in the table. the table includes four facilities operated by automotive components holdings, llc ("ach"), which is controlled by us. we plan to close one of the remaining ach plants in 2012. we are exploring our options for the three remaining ach plants (i.e., saline, sandusky, and sheldon road), and intend to transition these businesses to the supply base as soon as practicable. included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our automotive sector. as of december 31, 2011, the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns is as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ("flh") a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports ford-brand built-up vehicles from europe and the united states. this joint venture operates one plant. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and song cong diesel limited company (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. this joint venture operates one plant. 23 item 2. properties (continued) in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of these joint ventures are: aai a 50/50 joint venture with mazda that operates as its principal business an automobile assembly plant in flat rock, michigan. aai currently produces the mazda6 and ford mustang models. we supply all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried personnel requirements to aai, and aai reimburses us for the cost. production of the mazda6 at the aai facility is scheduled to end later this year, while production of the ford fusion is scheduled to begin at this facility in 2013. autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ("aat") a joint venture among ford (50%), mazda (45%) and a thai affiliate of mazda's (5%) that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic sale and export, the latter in both built-up and kit form with export of certain products to markets outside the asia pacific africa region. production includes the ford everest sport utility vehicle and the ford ranger and mazda bt-50 pickup trucks. with the completion of a significant expansion of the facility and implementation of new, highly flexible manufacturing equipment and processes, production now also includes the ford fiesta, mazda2, and mazda3 small passenger cars. blue diamond parts, llc ("blue diamond parts") a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar international corporation (formerly known as international truck and engine corporation) ("navistar") (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond parts manages sourcing, merchandising, and distribution of certain service parts for trucks sold in north america. we will continue to collaborate on this joint venture. blue diamond truck, s. de r.l. de c.v. ("blue diamond truck") a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond truck develops and manufactures selected medium-duty commercial trucks in mexico and sells the vehicles to ford and navistar for distribution. we have given notice that we are terminating the blue diamond truck joint venture effective september 2014, and will in-source production of f-650/750 trucks to our ohio assembly plant. changan ford mazda automobile corporation, ltd. ("cfma") a joint venture among ford (35% partner), mazda (15% partner), and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ("changan") (50% partner). through its facilities in the chinese cities of chongqing and nanjing, cfma produces and distributes in china an expanding variety of ford passenger car models, as well as mazda and volvo models. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ("cfme") a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces the ford new i4 and mazda bz engines in support of the assembly of ford- and mazda-branded vehicles manufactured in china. ford otosan a joint venture in turkey between ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier of the ford transit connect vehicle and our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. in addition, ford otosan makes the ford transit series and the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license. this joint venture owns and operates two plants, a parts distribution depot, and a product development center in turkey. ford romania s.a. we completed the acquisition of the romanian company s.c. automobile craiova, s.a. ("acsa"), and now have 100% ownership. although we manage the day-to-day operations in craiova, pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement the romanian government maintains the ability to influence certain key decisions regarding the business until march 2012. we have been in discussions with the romanian government to renegotiate some of the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, including an extension of the agreement to january 2013. we anticipate that we will consolidate the operations upon cessation of the government's control and participation pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement. this entity includes a vehicle assembly plant, an engine assembly plant, and the sales activities of ford in romania. in mid-2012, the plant will commence production of the all-new b-max for sale in europe and the production of a new high-technology small 3-cylinder engine. fordsollers a new 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc, which was launched on october 1, 2011. we contributed our operations in russia, consisting primarily of a manufacturing plant and access to our russian dealership network. sollers ojsc contributed two production facilities and will support the 24 item 2. properties (continued) joint venture through its manufacturing capabilities, knowledge of the russian market, experience in distribution, and work with the russian supply base. in addition, we granted to the joint venture an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford-brand vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture primarily will be engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. the application to the russian government for this joint venture to participate in the new industrial assembly regime, which will qualify it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia, was approved on june 1, 2011. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ("getrag ford") a 50/50 joint venture with getrag deutsche venture gmbh and co. kg, a german company, to which we transferred our european manual transmission operations, including plants, from halewood, england; cologne, germany; and bordeaux, france. in 2008, we added the kechnec plant in slovakia. getrag ford operates these four plants, producing manual transmissions for ford europe and volvo. we supply most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this joint venture; in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, our employees assigned to getrag ford may return to ford. getrag ford reimburses us for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor we supply. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (30% shareholder) and jiangxi jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangxi jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. and jiangling motors company group. the public investors of jmc own 29% of its outstanding shares. jmc assembles the ford transit van and other non-ford-technology-based vehicles for distribution in china. tenedora nemak, s.a. de c.v. a joint venture between ford (6.75% partner) and a subsidiary of mexican conglomerate alfa s.a. de c.v. (93.25% partner), which owns and operates, among other facilities, a portion of our former canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to several of our engine plants. we currently supply a portion of the hourly labor requirements for the canadian plant, for which it is fully reimbursed by the joint venture. beginning mid-year, the joint venture will supply all of its hourly labor requirements. the facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. the furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. item 3. legal proceedings the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 30 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicle lines of various model years. in many, no dollar amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. any damages we pay in a negotiated settlement or as the result of a verdict generally have been, on average, substantially less than the amounts originally claimed. based on our knowledge of the facts and circumstances asserted, our historical experience with matters of a similar nature, and our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing and the severity of any potential loss, we establish litigation accruals. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. 25 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. following are individual environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: edison assembly plant concrete disposal. during demolition of our edison assembly plant, we discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab. the concrete was crushed and reused by several developers as fill material at ten different off-site locations. the new jersey department of environmental protection ("dep") asserts that some of these locations may not have been authorized to receive the waste. in 2006, dep ordered us, supplier mig-alberici, inc., and developer edgewood properties, inc., to investigate, and, if appropriate, remove contaminated materials. we have substantially completed the work at a number of locations, and edgewood is completing the investigation and remediation at several locations it owns. we resolved the matter with dep through an administrative consent order ("order"), pursuant to which we paid approximately $460,000 for oversight costs, penalties, and environmental education projects, and donated emissions reduction credits to the state of new jersey. after reviewing comments submitted by edgewood, dep finalized the order in 2009. edgewood appealed issuance of the order to the appellate division of the new jersey superior court. class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past ever have been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed below are those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost. canadian export antitrust class actions. eighty-three purported class actions on behalf of all purchasers of new motor vehicles in the united states since january 1, 2001 have been filed in various state and federal courts against numerous defendants, including us. the complaints allege, among other things, that vehicle manufacturers, aided by dealer associations, conspired to prevent the sale to u.s. citizens of vehicles produced for the canadian market and sold by dealers in canada at lower prices than vehicles sold in the united states. the complaints seek injunctive relief under federal antitrust law and treble damages under federal and state antitrust laws. the federal actions were consolidated for coordinated pretrial proceedings in the u.s. district court for the district of maine and have been dismissed. cases remain pending in state courts in florida, new mexico, tennessee, and wisconsin. in california, where a statewide class had been certified, the court recently granted ford's motion for summary judgment; an appeal by the plaintiffs is possible. 26 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) medium/heavy truck sales procedure class action. this action pending in the ohio state court system alleges that ford breached its sales and service agreement with ford truck dealers by failing to publish to all ford dealers all price concessions that were approved for any dealer. the trial court certified a nationwide class consisting of all ford dealers who purchased from ford any 600-series or higher truck from 1987 to 1997, and granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on liability. in february 2011, the jury awarded $4.5 million in damages to the named plaintiff dealer, as previously reported. in june 2011, the trial court applied the jury's findings with regard to the named plaintiff to all dealers in the class, entering a judgment of approximately $2 billion in damages (comprised of about $800 million in damages, and $1.2 billion in pre-judgment interest). the trial court also denied our motion to decertify the class. we have appealed, and we believe the law supports our position. other matters apartheid litigation. along with two other prominent multinational companies, we are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits seeking unspecified damages on behalf of south african citizens who suffered violence and oppression under south africa's apartheid regime. the lawsuits allege that the defendant companies aided and abetted the apartheid regime and its human rights violations. these cases, collectively referred to as in re south african apartheid litigation , were initially filed in 2002 and 2003, and are being handled together as coordinated "multidistrict litigation" in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. the district court dismissed these cases in 2004, but in 2007 the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit reversed and remanded the cases to the district court for further proceedings. amended complaints were filed during 2008; motions to dismiss have been granted in part and denied in part, and defendants' appeal to the u.s. court of appeals is pending. brazilian state tax matters. two brazilian states have levied tax assessments against ford brazil, claiming that certain state tax incentives from the state of bahia did not receive formal approval from the organization of brazilian state treasury offices. we have appealed the assessment to the administrative level in each state; if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state court, which likely would require us to post significant cash or other collateral in order to proceed. we also have been notified that a third state is beginning an audit relating to these incentives; under that state's system, we may need to post significant cash or other collateral at the beginning of the administrative process to challenge any assessment. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 27 item 4a. executive officers of ford our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2012: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board sept. 2006 54 alan mulally (b) president and chief executive officer sept. 2006 66 michael e. bannister executive vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. oct. 2007 62 lewis w. k. booth (c) executive vice president and chief financial officer nov. 2008 63 mark fields executive vice president president, the americas oct. 2005 51 john fleming executive vice president global manufacturing and labor affairs dec. 2009 61 tony brown group vice president purchasing apr. 2008 55 james d. farley, jr. group vice president global marketing, sales and service nov. 2007 49 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services apr. 2008 46 bennie fowler group vice president quality apr. 2008 55 joseph r. hinrichs group vice president president, asia pacific and africa dec. 2009 45 derrick m. kuzak (c) group vice president global product development dec. 2006 60 david g. leitch group vice president and general counsel apr. 2005 51 j c. mays group vice president and chief creative officer design aug. 2003 57 stephen t. odell group vice president, chairman and ceo, ford of europe aug. 2010 56 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations jan. 2004 44 nick smither group vice president chief information officer apr. 2008 53 bob shanks (c) vice president and controller sept. 2009 59 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. (c) we made the following personnel announcements on february 9, 2012, with the changes effective april 1, 2012: mr. booth has elected to retire, and will be succeeded as executive vice president and chief financial officer by mr. shanks; mr. kuzak has elected to retire, and will be succeeded as group vice president - global product development by raj nair, currently the vice president of engineering within global product development; and mr. shanks will be succeeded as vice president and controller by stuart rowley, currently the chief financial officer for ford europe. with the exceptions noted below, each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. described below are the recent positions (other than those with ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with ford or its subsidiaries for five years: prior to joining ford in november 2007, mr. farley was group vice president and general manager of lexus, responsible for all sales, marketing and customer satisfaction activities for toyota's luxury brand. before leading lexus, he served as group vice president of toyota division marketing and was responsible for all toyota division market planning, advertising, merchandising, sales promotion, incentives and internet activities. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 28 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states, and on certain stock exchanges in belgium and france. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock for each quarterly period in 2010 and 2011: 2010 2011 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 14.54 $ 14.57 $ 13.24 $ 17.42 $ 18.97 $ 16.18 $ 14.22 $ 12.65 low 10.05 9.75 10.02 12.12 13.75 12.65 9.32 9.05 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock (b) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. (b) see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common and class b stock under the credit agreement. on december 8, 2011, our board of directors declared a dividend on our common and class b stock of $0.05 per share payable on march 1, 2012 to stockholders of record on january 31, 2012, which is within the limitations under the credit agreement. as of february 13, 2012, stockholders of record of ford included 158,445 holders of common stock (which number does not include 128 holders of old ford common stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our recapitalization, known as the value enhancement plan, which became effective on august 9, 2000) and 81 holders of class b stock. during the fourth quarter of 2011, we purchased shares of ford common stock as follows: period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly- announced plans or programs (b) maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (b) october 1, 2011 through october 31, 2011 $ november 1, 2011 through november 30, 2011 december 1, 2011 through december 31, 2011 31,142 10.85 total/average 31,142 10.85 __________ (a) shares were acquired from our employees or directors in accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share withholdings to pay: (i) income tax related to the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock or the issuance of unrestricted stock; and (ii) the exercise price and related income taxes with respect to certain exercises of stock options. (b) we did not have a publicly-announced repurchase program in the fourth quarter of 2011. in 2012, we plan to commence a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program for common stock in an amount up to an estimated $150 million to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation. for discussion of our outstanding convertible notes and warrants, convertible and exercisable into our common stock, see note 24 of the notes to the financial statements. 29 item 6. selected financial data on january 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard regarding consolidation of vies. we have applied the standard retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and present prior-year financial statement data on a basis that is revised for the application of this standard. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts). summary of operations 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 total company sales and revenues $ 136,264 $ 128,954 $ 116,283 $ 143,584 $ 168,884 income/(loss) before income taxes $ 8,681 $ 7,149 $ 2,599 $ (14,895 ) $ (4,286 ) provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (11,541 ) 592 (113 ) (62 ) (1,467 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 20,222 6,557 2,712 (14,833 ) (2,819 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 5 9 41 income/(loss) before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 20,222 6,557 2,717 (14,824 ) (2,778 ) cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles net income/(loss) 20,222 6,557 2,717 (14,824 ) (2,778 ) less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 (4 ) (58 ) 17 net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 20,213 $ 6,561 $ 2,717 $ (14,766 ) $ (2,795 ) automotive sector sales $ 128,168 $ 119,280 $ 103,868 $ 127,635 $ 152,691 operating income/(loss) 5,763 5,789 (3,352 ) (9,976 ) (4,979 ) income/(loss) before income taxes 6,250 4,146 785 (12,314 ) (5,510 ) financial services sector revenues $ 8,096 $ 9,674 $ 12,415 $ 15,949 $ 16,193 income/(loss) before income taxes 2,431 3,003 1,814 (2,581 ) 1,224 amounts per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock basic: income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 5.33 $ 1.90 $ 0.91 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.43 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 cumulative effects of change in accounting principles net income/(loss) $ 5.33 $ 1.90 $ 0.91 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.41 ) diluted: income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 4.94 $ 1.66 $ 0.86 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.43 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 cumulative effects of change in accounting principles net income/(loss) $ 4.94 $ 1.66 $ 0.86 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.41 ) cash dividends $ 0.05 $ $ $ $ common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high $ 18.97 $ 17.42 $ 10.37 $ 8.79 $ 9.70 low 9.05 9.75 1.50 1.01 6.65 average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,793 3,449 2,992 2,273 1,979 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 78,786 $ 64,606 $ 79,118 $ 71,556 $ 115,484 financial services sector 101,574 103,270 119,112 151,667 169,261 intersector elimination (1,112 ) (2,083 ) (3,224 ) (2,535 ) (2,023 ) total assets $ 179,248 $ 165,793 $ 195,006 $ 220,688 $ 282,722 debt automotive sector $ 13,094 $ 19,077 $ 33,610 $ 23,319 $ 24,190 financial services sector 86,595 85,112 98,671 128,842 141,833 intersector elimination (a) (201 ) (201 ) (646 ) (492 ) total debt $ 99,488 $ 103,988 $ 131,635 $ 151,669 $ 166,023 total equity/(deficit) $ 15,071 $ (642 ) $ (7,782 ) $ (15,371 ) $ 7,771 __________ (a) debt related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities; see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for additional detail. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview revenue our automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories. revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. when we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. in addition, revenue for finished vehicles we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of the related contracts as an element of financing revenue. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. costs and expenses our statement of operations classifies our automotive total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: material excluding commodity costs - primarily reflecting the change in cost of purchased parts used in the assembly of our vehicles. commodity costs - reflecting the change in cost for raw materials (such as steel, aluminum, and resins) used in the manufacture of our products. structural costs - reflecting the change in costs that generally do not have a directly proportionate relationship to our production volumes, such as labor costs, including pension and health care; other costs related to the development and manufacture of our vehicles; depreciation and amortization; and advertising and sales promotion costs. warranty and other costs - reflecting the change in cost related to warranty coverage, product recalls, and customer satisfaction actions, as well as the change in freight and other costs related to the distribution of our vehicles and support for the sale and distribution of parts and accessories. while material (including commodity), freight, and warranty costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, are not necessarily impacted by production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume and grow our market share. automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2011 was $122.4 billion. material costs (including commodity costs) make up the largest portion of our automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2011 about two-thirds of the total amount. of the remaining balance of our automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry global economic conditions. the global economy grew by about 4% during 2010, as the economy began to emerge from deep recession. during 2011, global economic growth slowed to an estimated 3%, as the worsening debt crisis in europe, regime changes in north africa, natural disasters in japan and thailand, and moderating economic growth in several key newly-developed and emerging markets all contributed to slow growth. during 2012, global economic growth is expected to remain in the 3% range. the european debt crisis represents a key risk to economic growth. the current economic performance in many european countries, particularly greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain, is being hampered by excessive government debt levels and the resulting budget austerity measures that are contributing to weak economic growth. the european union, the european central bank, and the international monetary fund have provided important support for many of these countries undergoing structural changes. during 2012, economic growth is likely to remain weak in these markets. the u.k. government has implemented budget cuts and the housing market is still working off its slump, which will continue to restrain economic conditions in the united kingdom. uncertainties associated with the european debt crisis and policy responses to it could impact global economic performance in 2012. although housing is stabilizing in some of the worst hit markets, such as the united states, the prospect of a housing recovery is hampered by high foreclosure rates and excess housing stocks. global industry vehicle sales volume (including medium and heavy truck) is estimated to have increased to 76 million units in 2011, up more than 2 million units - or about 3% - from 2010 levels. in 2012, global industry sales are projected to be about 80 million units. in light of the volatile external environment, however, sales could range from 75 million units to 85 million units in 2012. 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (which as of 2011 includes an expanded truck segment compared with previous years) of about 96 million units exceeded global production by about 22 million units in 2011. in north america and europe, the two regions where the majority of industry revenue and profits are earned, excess capacity as a percent of production is an estimated 26%. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 24 million units per year during the period from 2012 to 2016. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity (located outside of the region) directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. although there has been some firming of pricing in the u.s. market, particularly in 2011, it seems likely that over the long term intense competition and apparent excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price increases. despite weak demand conditions, oil prices increased from an average of $80 per barrel in 2010 to about $100 a barrel in late 2011. commodity prices have declined recently, but over the longer term prices are likely to trend higher given global demand growth. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 130% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, compared with about 70% for our smaller vehicles. as we execute our one ford plan, we are creating best-in-class vehicles on global platforms that contribute higher margins, and offering a more balanced portfolio of vehicles with which we aim to be among the leaders in fuel efficiency in every segment in which we compete. increasing sales of smaller vehicles . like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india, and china, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets. the largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., sub-b, b, and c segments). to increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are significantly increasing our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures. in addition, we expect that increased demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles will continue in the mature markets of north america and europe and, consequently, we have seen and expect in the future strong demand in those markets for our small car offerings (including our new ford fiesta and focus models that are based on global platforms). although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles. currency exchange rate volatility. the european debt crisis has contributed to recent financial market volatility. coupled with the ongoing policy actions taken by central banks to support the financial system, exchange rates have remained volatile. most recently, the euro currency value has fluctuated as progress toward a solution to the sovereign debt crisis remains highly uncertain. the high inflation in newly-developed and emerging markets and capital flight to perceived stable investments have started to erode the strength of some local currencies. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors. as a result, it is likely that exchange rates will remain volatile. other economic factors. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, could drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies we remain firm in our belief that our continued focus on executing the four key priorities of our one ford plan enables us to go further for our customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, and other key constituencies: aggressively restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix; accelerate development of new products our customers want and value; finance our plan and improve our balance sheet; and work together effectively as one team, leveraging our global assets. despite the external economic environment in recent years, we have made significant progress in transforming our business. aggressively restructure to operate profitably brands. in recent years, we have eliminated a number of brands from our portfolio in order to devote fully our financial, product development, production, and marketing and sales and services resources toward further growing our core ford brand and enhancing lincoln. we have sold aston martin, jaguar and land rover, and most recently volvo. in addition to completing the sale of volvo in the third quarter of 2010, we discontinued the mercury brand at the end of 2010. we also reduced our stake in mazda to 3.5 percent from 11 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. all of these actions allow us to increase flexibility as we continue to pursue growth in key emerging markets, while also continuing our cooperation in areas of mutual benefit, such as key joint ventures and exchange of technology information. manufacturing. we are committed to maintaining an appropriate manufacturing footprint in markets around the world, both in the more mature markets in which we have an established presence, and in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets. we also are committed to ensuring that our assembly plants have flexible body shops that allow us to respond quickly to changing consumer demands. we are making substantial investments in newly-developed and emerging markets over the next few years, including in china, thailand, and india, to increase our production capacity with flexible new manufacturing plants. we also are making substantial investments in north america, including efforts to ensure that nearly all of our u.s. assembly plants have flexible body shops by 2012. we also have converted three north american assembly plants from production of large utilities and trucks to small car production to support the increasing demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. suppliers . we continue to work to strengthen our global supply base. as part of this process, we have been reducing the global number of production suppliers eligible for new product sourcing from 3,300 in 2004 to about 1,350 at year-end 2011. we have identified plans that will take us to about 850 suppliers in the near- to mid-term, with a further reduction to about 750 targeted, and we are confident that our consolidation efforts will result in a stronger and healthier supply base. we also are working closely with our suppliers to address any near-term capacity constraints as we continue to ramp up production. in addition, our move to global vehicle platforms increases our ability to source to common suppliers for the total global volume of vehicle components resulting in a smaller number of suppliers receiving a greater volume of purchases to support our global vehicle platforms and allowing us to gain greater economies of scale. ford and lincoln dealerships . our dealers are a source of strength in north america and around the world, representing the face of ford to local communities. our goal is to achieve a sustainable and profitable dealer network by rightsizing the number of dealerships, identifying the right locations, and ensuring the appropriate branded facilities to satisfy current and future demand. we are adding dealerships rapidly in markets in our asia pacific africa region where industry volume is growing at a rapid pace. our total dealership network in china is about 400, and about 150 dealerships in india. we have plans to continue our expansion of these networks, in addition to the dealership networks in our growth markets of brazil and russia. we also continue to work with our dealers in the united states to rightsize the number of ford and lincoln outlets, particularly in our largest 130 metropolitan markets. as part of these efforts, we have reduced the number of outlets in our u.s. ford and lincoln network from about 4,400 at the end of 2005 to about 3,340 at the end of 2011. we believe our u.s. dealers are positioned to profitably grow business in 2012, as they invest in their facilities, employees, and communities while continuously striving to improve the experience of retail customers. as previously announced, we discontinued the mercury brand as of december 31, 2010, and we have successfully resolved mercury franchise agreements for 99% of mercury franchise holders. product development. our one ford global product development system is fully operationalized, utilizing global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across multiple markets. through our hub and spoke approach, one lead product development engineering center - the hub - is assigned for each global vehicle line, thereby ensuring global scale and efficiency through common designs, parts, suppliers, and manufacturing processes. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the hubs are supported by regional engineering centers - spokes - which also help deliver products tuned to local market customer preferences while maintaining global design dna. typical delivery metrics for global programs include 80% part commonality, 75% pre-sourcing to global suppliers, and 100% common manufacturing and assembly process. developments underway that underscore the progress of our one ford global product development system implementation include, by mid-decade: b-segment platform (fiesta, b-max, ecosport, etc.) providing an annual platform volume of greater than 2 million units with common design and manufacturing across applicable markets c-segment platform (focus, c-max, escape, kuga, etc.) leveraging greater than 2 million units annually with our widest range of regionally-tuned "top hats" across all global markets recently announced global cd-segment platform achieving ongoing annual volume of 1 million units, including fusion and mondeo, along with additional vehicles to be introduced over time compact truck (global ranger pick-up) annual platform volume exceeding 275,000, and commercial van platform (e-series and transit) with annual volume exceeding 470,000 the efficiency and flexibility gains enabled by our one ford plan will allow us to increase our overall volume across all platforms threefold between 2010 and 2016. by 2013, more than 85% of our global volume will be on nine core platforms. also by 2013, we will have common small- and medium-sized ford vehicles in north america, south america, europe, and asia pacific africa. accelerate development of new products our customers want and value we are committed to introducing new products that consumers want and value, and we are receiving very positive reactions from consumers, media, and independent evaluators in response to the products we have introduced in recent years. we will continue to build on this strength in 2012 - beginning with the favorable reactions to our 2013 model year ford escape, introduced at the los angeles auto show in november 2011, followed by the 2013 model year ford fusion introduced at the 2012 north american international auto show ("naias"), which won autoweek magazine's best in show award. our global product strategy is to serve our key geographic markets with a complete family of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks that have best-in-class design and quality, are environmentally responsible, and contain high-value feature content. the result of this strategy is a full-line of vehicles that: have bold, emotive exterior designs are great to drive are great to sit in (with the comfort and convenience of a second home on wheels and exceptional quietness) provide fuel economy as a reason to buy are unmistakably a ford or lincoln in look, sound and feel provide exceptional value we plan to continue leadership in delivering the freshest showrooms in all regions, achieving a global refresh rate of 1.7 times (ranging from 1.5 in ford north america and ford europe to 2.2 in ford south america) between 2011 and 2016 - all with benchmark product development efficiency. additionally, we have renewed our commitment to the lincoln brand. we know that transitioning lincoln to a world-class luxury brand requires a transformational shift in product execution and ownership experience. as evident in the lincoln mkz concept revealed at the 2012 naias, our lincoln product strategy will deliver: uniquely lincoln vehicles, inside and out - built on our core platforms leveraging global scale and efficiencies design excellence that is stunning and understated, with premium amenities offered on every nameplate product excellence that is enabled by class-leading technologies the "right" balance of customer-relevant features in a unique experience that is guided by lincoln dna starting this year, we will have seven new or significantly refreshed lincoln products by 2015. developing products our customers want and value for ford and lincoln demands consistent focus on the four pillars of our global product strategy - drive quality, drive green, drive safe, and drive smart. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) drive quality . we have made significant strides in recent years to achieve world class levels of quality and desirability. this has been accomplished by following an established, global set of disciplined, standardized processes that are aimed at making us the world's leader in automotive quality. via our common global management team, we are leveraging our assets by eliminating duplication, implementing best practices, and utilizing a systematic approach to quality. this integrated approach is apparent in the recently-launched ford fiesta and focus, which truly are global products earning high customer satisfaction levels. external inputs are confirming our internal assessment, with the fiesta labeled the most appealing sub-compact car in the jd power and associates apeal study in 2011. the ford f-150 won in its segment as well. the f-150 shines again with the best initial quality in its segment, while the taurus also received an award in the jd power and associates initial quality study. for overall dependability, jd power and associates ranked the fusion and mustang, and the lincoln mkz and navigator, as the most dependable vehicles in their respective segments. the lincoln brand led all brands as the most dependable sold in the united states. the cumulative effect of our disciplined global quality standards has been improved quality and owner satisfaction. for example, our global repair rates at three months in service have decreased by over 56% since 2005. going forward, we expect our global processes to lead to ongoing continuous improvement. we are committed to providing leading edge technologies customers want and value, including myford touch, which increasingly is playing a pivotal role in defining the future of automotive interiors and enhancing convenience, safety, and overall driving experience across a wide range of vehicles. since myford touch launched last fall, we have held four customer clinics in which hundreds of owners have spoken directly with ford engineers about their experiences with the new technology. owner feedback was clear and consistent, revealing that myford touch was a key purchase factor. our customers also highlighted that myford touch could be faster and feature simpler graphics that are easier to use. while owners reported that they loved the system, there were distinct areas in which they wanted improvements. earlier this year, we began delivering on their requests, starting with more detailed instructions and information on how best to utilize the capabilities of the system. moreover, we have worked on a broad set of performance upgrades to the system for rollout in 2012 which will enhance the ownership experience based on customer feedback. drive green . our commitment to sustainability relies on a balanced approach, both in application of fuel economy technology as well as breadth of offerings. we are focusing on advancing conventional vehicle technology that touches millions of new vehicles each year and provides affordable fuel economy to the masses. at the same time, we are developing next-generation propulsion systems that represent an important part of the long-term future for the industry. we remain committed to our goal to deliver leadership or among the best fuel efficiency in every major new vehicle launch. nearly one-third of ford's vehicle lines will feature a model with 40 mpg or more in 2012 - a claim no other full-line automaker can match. additionally, the 2013 model year fusion is projected to deliver the best-in-class fuel economy in any of three powertrains -- gas, hybrid, and plug-in hybrid. the implementation of our ecoboost family of gasoline engines is well established and a major part of our sustainability strategy, delivering both exceptional fuel economy and performance. by combining direct fuel-injection and turbo charging, the ecoboost engine can deliver up to 20% better fuel economy and up to 15% fewer co 2 emissions versus larger-displacement engines, without sacrificing driving performance. the 3.5-liter ecoboost v6 engine was introduced in 2009 and now is available in the lincoln mks and mkt and the ford taurus sho, flex, f-150, and will be in the two new police interceptors. the f-150 v6 line-up has exceeded expectations with ecoboost - a major reason v6 sales have grown to over 50% of f-150 retail sales. the 2.0-liter i4 ecoboost was launched in 2010 in europe with the ford mondeo, s-max, and galaxy. in 2011, the 2.0-liter ecoboost made its north american debut in the explorer and edge as well as falcon in australia, and is planned for the 2013 model year focus st, escape, fusion, and taurus. the 2.0-liter mondeo also was the first ecoboost introduced in china, with follow-on introductions on the way. the 1.6-liter i4 ecoboost launched in europe in 2010 with the focus, c-max, grand c-max, mondeo, s-max, and galaxy and is planned for focus in australia, as well as escape and fusion in north america. additionally, an all-new, fuel-efficient 1.0-liter i3 ecoboost engine is planned to debut in the all-new ecosport for india, and will be available in the b-max, c-max, and european focus. in north america, over time we plan to triple the production of ecoboost-equipped vehicles. by 2013, annual global production of ecoboost vehicles is expected to reach 1.5 million units. in asia pacific africa, ecoboost - along with other innovative global technologies such as the advanced 6-speed powershift and automatic transmissions - is a major part of our plan to deliver fuel efficiency improvement of up to 20% across our product lineup by the end of 2012 compared with 2008. for example, in australia we introduced in 2011 an advanced liquid-injection petroleum gas ("lpg") system for the ford falcon, providing customers with the most advanced lpg technology on the market. 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our european econetic range of ultra-low co 2 diesel models across small to mid-size car and commercial vehicle segments continues to build on the success begun with the 2008 focus econetic. in 2012, we will launch the focus econetic with further advanced technology including stop-start capability to reduce co 2 emissions to a segment-leading 89 g/km, and the fiesta econetic at 87 g/km. in 2011, the mondeo econetic provided customers with a mid-sized car with low co 2 emissions of 114 g/km. in south america, we will transition our top hat and powertrain offerings to 100% global products within three years. for example, in 2012 we will launch a variety of engine technologies, including high-tech naturally-aspirated engines, 100% ethanol ("e100"), ecoboost, and hybrid electric ("hev"). additionally, we will provide small, medium, and large diesel engines to improve fuel efficiency of our products. we also are pursuing an aggressive electrification vehicle strategy called "power of choice." we are adding electric vehicle versions to existing, traditional vehicle lines, rather than creating one specific electric vehicle model. our approach will enable us to offer a broad portfolio of electric vehicles at affordable prices, leveraging the efficiency of scale through the entire vehicle line. with power of choice, customers will be able to choose from a variety of electric powertrains, including: hybrid electric vehicles - powered in part by a battery and in part by an internal combustion engine, depending on driving conditions, with on-board charging of the battery (e.g., ford fusion hybrid and lincoln mkz hybrid currently available in north america) plug-in hevs - similar to a hybrid vehicle, but with a larger battery to provide more electric power in more driving conditions, with the battery capable of being charged externally (e.g., ford c-max energi to be launched in north america in 2012 and europe in 2013, and fusion energi to be launched in north america in 2012) battery-electric vehicle ("bev") - powered solely by battery, with no internal combustion engine, with the battery charged externally (e.g., ford transit connect bev launched in north america in 2010 and in europe in 2011, and focus electric bev launched in north america in 2011 and to be launched in europe in 2012). we continue to engage in a number of collaborative agreements to address the many challenges that remain for electrified transportation including battery development, component standardization, cost, electric infrastructure, and connectivity to the national power grid. for example, we have signed a memorandum of understanding with toyota to study potential collaboration to develop rear wheel drive truck and sport utility vehicle hev technology. this collaboration is expected to enable a cost-efficient solution for maintaining our truck fuel economy leadership going forward. drive safe . we are building on our record of having the most u.s. government 5-star rated vehicles by expanding both advanced crash protection and crash avoidance technology. we are strengthening our safety leadership by focusing on three key areas - addressing driver behavior , enhancing crash protection even further , and pioneering the next frontier of safety with driver-assist crash-avoidance technologies. for example, we introduced mykey to help parents encourage teenagers to drive more safely and more fuel-efficiently, and to increase safety belt usage. mykey - which debuted on the 2010 focus and quickly has become standard on most ford and lincoln models - allows owners to program a key that can limit the vehicle's top speed, limit the audio volume, and mute the audio if the front seat occupants are not buckled-up. we also are the leader in another dimension of driver behavior - enabling drivers to more safely operate vehicles during the recent years in which we've seen a sharp growth in the number of personal electronic devices (e.g., cell phones, mp3 players, etc.). our sync system provides hands-free connectivity, with more than 4 million sync units on the road, and our 2 nd generation of sync has added a "do not disturb" feature that allows users to redirect incoming messages and calls directly to the customer's cellular mail box. we also offer a new advanced crash-avoidance technology - collision warning with brake support - on several ford and lincoln vehicles including ford taurus, edge, and explorer, and lincoln mks, mkx, and mkt. this feature uses radar to monitor traffic directly ahead, and warns the driver with an authoritative beep and a red warning light projected on the windshield if a collision threat is detected. the all-new 2011 explorer also debuted the auto industry's first-ever production use of inflatable seat belts, designed to provide additional protection for rear-seat occupants - often children and older passengers who can be more vulnerable to head, chest, and neck injuries. this technology was incorporated into the 2013 model year ford flex and lincoln mkt, and we plan to expand further offerings to other vehicles globally. other global driver-assist features such as blind spot information system , active park assist, and adaptive cruise control have enjoyed strong customer demand and expanded vehicle applications. we also have begun offering the next suite of new safety features and driver assistance technologies -- we will introduce lane keeping aid and driver alert on the 2013 model year lincoln mks and mkt, and ford flex, explorer, fusion, mondeo and the focus in europe. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the independent car safety organization euro ncap named the new focus europe's "best in class" small family car, while the focus also became the industry's first vehicle to earn four euro ncap advanced technology awards, being recognized for active city stop, lane keeping aid, driver alert, and forward alert. features such as speed limiter, torque vectoring control, traffic sign recognition system, all-seat beltminder , and power child locks also have been introduced in europe on the focus, c-max, grand c-max, mondeo, s-max, and galaxy. drive smart. we recently earned our fourth consecutive invitation to participate in the international consumer electronics show ("ces"). at the 2011 show, mr. mulally introduced the focus bev and our entry into the growing smart phone-to-vehicle connectivity movement with myford mobile . myford mobile provides bev customers with unprecedented levels of mobile access to important elements of the bev ownership experience like charge status, range, and route planning, and convenience features like remote locking and unlocking of doors. at the 2012 show, we introduced the ford evos concept to north america for the first time. the evos concept showcases a dramatic four-door, four-seat fastback concept with state-of-the-art lithium-ion plug-in hybrid powertrain that previews our first truly global design language and a new vision for customer-focused intuitive technologies. driver engagement technologies explore seamless enhancement of the driving experience and smart, electrified powertrain. technologies use online data to check for potential travel routes and to set the most efficient braking, steering, and suspension settings with efficient and enjoyable powertrain settings, and to reserve a charging parking spot at the driver's destination. we built on our momentum by showcasing as well the fusion energi - a new plug-in hybrid that is expected to deliver more than 100 mpge (miles per gallon equivalent) when driving on plug-in battery power - which was named "official car of ces." building upon our demonstrated strategy to democratize globally our technology, our new hands free liftgate is being introduced on the all-new 2013 model year escape, and will be rolled out to select vehicles over time. with the vehicle's key fob in a purse or pocket, the hands free liftgate allows the owner simply to use his/her leg to motion under the liftgate to trigger the power liftgate to open. parents and active people of all ages will find the feature especially useful. additionally, the 2013 model year mks introduces the lincoln drive control system that allows the driver to modify the on-road "personality" of the vehicle, thereby delivering the ideal balance of smooth ride with confident handling. by moving the gear selector from drive to sport, the vehicle automatically changes shift performance, ride firmness, throttle response, shift schedule, steering response and traction control/electronic stability control parameters. we also announced at ces our plan to create and open in the first quarter of 2012 our first dedicated research lab in california's silicon valley. this new lab will help us keep pace with consumer trends and aggressively prepare for the future by developing mobility solutions to harness the power of seamless connectivity, sensing systems, cloud computing, and clean technology, furthering our commitment to make technology affordable for millions of consumers. leveraging key new technologies across the four strategy pillars in multiple regions on global programs drives tremendous scale and efficiency savings that can be re-invested, allowing us to have the freshest showroom in the industry. in 2011, we launched 28 new or redesigned vehicles in key markets around the world, including the redesigned focus globally; in north america, the 2.0-liter ecoboost engine in the ford explorer and edge, and the 3.5-liter ecoboost in the f-150; in europe, the new transit connect bev and global ranger; and in asia pacific africa, the new fiesta and global ranger. our aggressive freshening cadence and relentless focus on efficiency is producing results that are greater than our major global full-line competitors. our global programs continue to offer bold, emotive designs, high levels of quality, fuel economy leadership, top safety ratings, innovative technologies, and greater feature content than higher-series competitive offerings that also will allow us to reduce brand discounts and increase revenue across our portfolio. this overall combination of cost efficiency and revenue enhancement that is being realized from one ford and our global product strategy will help us continue to profitably grow and "go further." 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet as discussed in more detail in "liquidity and capital resources" below, during 2011 we generated positive automotive operating-related cash flow of $5.6 billion. we reduced automotive debt substantially in recent years, and significantly improved our net cash/(debt) position, as shown below (in billions): december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 automotive gross cash $ 22.9 $ 20.5 $ 24.9 less debt: revolving line of credit 0.8 7.5 veba debt 7.0 unsecured convertible notes 0.7 0.7 2.6 term loan 4.1 5.3 u.s. dept. of energy loans for advanced technology manufacturing/exim 5.0 3.0 1.2 all other debt 7.4 10.5 10.0 total debt 13.1 19.1 33.6 net cash/(debt) $ 9.8 $ 1.4 $ (8.7 ) work together effectively as one team as part of the one team approach, we have implemented a disciplined business plan process to regularly review our business environment, risks and opportunities, strategy, and plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan. everyone is included and contributes, openness is encouraged, our leaders are responsible and accountable, we use facts and data to make our decisions, high performance teamwork is a performance criteria - and we follow this process every week, every month, and every quarter, driving continuous improvement. we believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing conditions - as we have done in the face of rapid changes in the market and business environment in the last few years. as needed, we convene daily management meetings to handle potentially acute situations, such as the aftermath of natural disasters in asia pacific. this allows us to ensure that we are vigorously managing daily developments and moving decisively in response to changing conditions. in addition, we are partnering with and enlisting all of our stakeholders to help us execute our plan to deal with our business realities and create an exciting and viable ford business going forward. we are reaching out and listening to customers, dealers, employees, the uaw, suppliers, investors, communities, retirees, and federal, state and local governments. each of these constituencies is a critical part of the success of our business going forward. realizing our goal of profitable growth for all is as important to these stakeholders as it is to our shareholders. 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations total company our net income attributable to ford motor company was $20.2 billion or $4.94 per share of common and class b stock in 2011, an improvement of $13.6 billion from net income attributable to ford motor company of $6.6 billion or $1.66 per share of common and class b stock in 2010. total company results are shown below: 2011 2010 2009 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) income/(loss) pre-tax results (excl. special items) $ 8,763 $ 8,300 $ 38 special items (82 ) (1,151 ) 2,561 pre-tax results (incl. special items) 8,681 7,149 2,599 (provision for)/benefit from income taxes 11,541 (592 ) 113 income from continuing operations 20,222 6,557 2,712 income/(loss) from discontinued operations 5 net income/(loss) 20,222 6,557 2,717 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 (4 ) net income/(loss) attributable to ford $ 20,213 $ 6,561 $ 2,717 income/(loss) before income taxes includes certain items ("special items") that we have grouped into "personnel and dealer-related items" and "other items" to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items. the first category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities. the second category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. as detailed in note 27 of the notes to the financial statements, we allocate all automotive sector and financial services sector special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and other automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table details automotive sector special items in each category: 2011 2010 2009 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) personnel and dealer-related items automotive sector personnel-reduction actions $ (269 ) $ (145 ) $ (663 ) mercury discontinuation/other dealer actions (151 ) (339 ) (140 ) job security benefits/other 93 36 40 retiree health care and related charges (768 ) total personnel and dealer-related items (327 ) (448 ) (1,531 ) other items automotive sector belgium pension settlement (109 ) debt reduction actions (60 ) (853 ) 4,663 sale of volvo and related charges (a) 8 179 (226 ) gain on sale of ford russia operations 401 other (including foreign currency translation impact) 5 (29 ) (374 ) return on assets held in temporary asset account ("taa") 110 total other items - automotive sector 245 (703 ) 4,173 total automotive sector $ (82 ) $ (1,151 ) $ 2,642 financial services sector dfo partnership impairment (132 ) gain on purchase of ford holdings debt securities 51 total other items - financial services sector $ $ $ (81 ) total special items $ (82 ) $ (1,151 ) $ 2,561 __________ (a) beginning in 2010, because volvo's results were no longer indicative of our ongoing operations, we categorized volvo's revenue and corresponding wholesales, costs, and expenses as special items. on august 2, 2010, we completed the sale of volvo and related assets. gains or losses and other costs related to the sale also are included in "sale of volvo and related charges." not shown in the table above are tax benefits of $14.2 billion, $134 million and $132 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, that we consider to be special items. these primarily consist of the 2011 release of almost all of the valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets, tax effects of the pre-tax special items listed above, and the impact of changes in tax laws on deferred tax balances. discussion of automotive and financial services sector results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis, and total automotive sector results and total financial services sector results exclude special items unless otherwise specifically noted. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the chart below details 2011 pre-tax operating results by sector: total company full-year 2011 pre-tax profit of $8.8 billion reflects strong results from both sectors. compared with 2010, total company full-year pre-tax operating profit improved, driven by a $1 billion improvement in the automotive sector, with financial services delivering strong results, although lower than last year, as previously projected. automotive sector in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive pre-tax operating profit for our total automotive sector (excluding special items) and reportable segments using the causal factors listed below, with revenue and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix - primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line. net pricing - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, and special lease offers. contribution costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs, warranty expense, and freight and duty costs. other costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume - mainly structural costs, such as labor costs including pension and health care ("manufacturing and engineering" and "pension/opeb"), other costs related to development and manufacture of our vehicles ("overhead"), amortization and depreciation ("spending-related"), and advertising and sales promotions. exchange - primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) impact of gains or losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the locations, (ii) effect of remeasuring income, assets, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using u.s. dollars as the functional currency, or (iii) results of our foreign currency hedging activities. net interest and other - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in our automotive sector's centrally-managed net interest (primarily interest expense, interest income, and other adjustments) and related fair value market adjustments in our investment portfolio and marketable securities as well as other items not included in the causal factors defined above. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 total automotive. the charts below detail full-year key metrics and the change in full-year 2011 pre-tax operating results compared with full-year 2010 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax operating results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue were higher than the year-ago period, but operating margin was down seven-tenths of a point; higher commodity costs reduced our margin by 1.8 points. total automotive pre-tax operating profit in 2011 was $6.3 billion, an increase of $1 billion from 2010. the increase in earnings is explained by strong performance in market factors, and lower interest expense net of interest income (due primarily to lower debt levels). this was offset partially by higher contribution costs, higher structural costs (including the effect of higher volumes, new product launches, and investments to support our future product, capacity, and brand-building plans), higher compensation costs in north america, and unfavorable exchange. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2011 and 2010 was $122.4 billion and $113.5 billion, respectively, a difference of $8.9 billion. an explanation of the change as reconciled to our income statement is shown below (in billions): 2011 better/(worse) 2010 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (11.4 ) contribution costs (a) commodity costs (incl. hedging) (2.3 ) material costs excluding commodity costs (1.2 ) warranty/freight (0.7 ) other costs (a) structural costs (1.4 ) other 0.1 special items (b) 8.0 total $ (8.9 ) _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. (b) special items primarily reflect the non-recurrence of volvo costs and expenses in 2011. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below for 2011. total automotive pre-tax operating profit of $6.3 billion was led by a $6.2 billion profit from ford north america. ford south america earned a solid profit, while ford europe was about breakeven, incurring a small loss driven by the economic uncertainty in the region. ford asia pacific africa incurred a loss as well, more than explained by the impact of the japan and thailand natural disasters. the loss in other automotive was $601 million, reflecting higher interest expense net of interest income and unfavorable fair market valuation adjustments, mainly for our investment in mazda. for 2012, we expect interest expense net of interest income to be about the same as 2011. while interest expense will be reduced reflecting our lower debt levels, the effect of lower interest rates will be reduced interest income. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford north america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved in 2011 compared with the prior year. operating margin declined one-tenth of a percentage point; this includes an adverse impact of 2 points due to higher commodity costs. ford north america reported a pre-tax operating profit of $6.2 billion, compared with a profit of $5.4 billion a year ago. higher net pricing reflects the strength of our brand and products, a disciplined approach to incentive spending, and our ongoing practice to match production to customer demand. favorable volume and mix was more than explained by higher u.s. industry and dealer stocks. these were offset partially by unfavorable contribution costs reflecting higher commodity costs, higher material costs excluding commodities, and higher warranty and freight costs. other costs reflect unfavorable structural costs. as we look ahead to 2012, we expect north america to continue to be the core of our automotive operations, with improved profitability compared with 2011. 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford south america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesales and revenue increased compared with a year ago, while operating margin declined. ford south america reported a pre-tax operating profit of $861 million, compared with a profit of $1 billion a year ago. the decline in earnings is more than explained by higher structural costs (driven primarily by local inflation), higher contribution costs (more than explained by commodity costs), and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by favorable net pricing and volume and mix. looking ahead, the competition in south america is intensifying, with substantial capacity increases planned by a number of companies and new entrants. against this background, we expect our south american operations to continue to generate solid profitability for 2012, although somewhat lower than in 2011. we are continuing to work on actions to strengthen our competitiveness in the changing environment. these actions include fully leveraging our one ford plan, including the introduction of an all-new lineup of global products over the next two years, starting in the second half of 2012. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford europe segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved in 2011 compared with the prior year. operating margin declined in 2011, with higher commodity costs contributing a negative 1.5 points to europe's full-year margin. ford europe reported a pre-tax operating loss of $27 million, compared with a profit of $182 million a year ago. the decline in results is more than explained by higher commodity costs and material costs excluding commodities, as well as unfavorable exchange. these costs were offset partially by higher net pricing and favorable volume and mix. other reflects our continued investment in the craiova facility in romania in preparation for the production volume ramp-up in 2012, as well as lower parts and accessories profits. the external environment in europe is uncertain and is likely to remain so for some time. given the challenges in europe, we will continue to review, take, and accelerate actions to strengthen and improve our business. this will include fully leveraging our one ford plan and our global resources. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford asia pacific africa segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, wholesales and revenue increased compared with a year ago, while operating margin declined. ford asia pacific africa reported a pre-tax operating loss of $92 million, compared with a profit of $189 million a year ago. the decline in results reflects higher costs (primarily structural costs in support of ford asia pacific africa growth plans), unfavorable volume and mix (which includes the impact of events in japan and thailand), and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by higher net pricing. we expect ford asia pacific africa to grow volume and be profitable for 2012, even as we continue to invest in additional capacity and our product line-up for an even stronger future, in line with implementation of our one ford plan. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2010 compared with 2009 total automotive. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2010 pre-tax operating results compared with 2009 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax operating results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. the increase in wholesales for total automotive reflects higher wholesales in ford north america and ford asia pacific africa, offset partially by lower volvo wholesales (reflecting the sale of volvo). the improvement in total automotive results primarily reflects favorable volume and mix, net pricing (mainly in north america), changes in currency exchange, and the non-recurrence of volvo operating losses from 2009, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes and higher net interest expense. favorable volume and mix primarily reflects higher industry volumes, market share improvements in north america, and the non-recurrence of prior-year stock reductions, offset partially by lower market share in europe. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2010 and 2009 was $113.5 billion and $107.2 billion, respectively, a difference of $6.3 billion. an explanation of the change as reconciled to our income statement is shown below (in billions): 2010 better/(worse) 2009 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (12.1 ) material costs excluding commodity costs (a) 1.1 commodity costs (a) (1.0 ) structural costs (a) (1.2 ) warranty/other (a) 0.1 special items (b) 6.8 total $ (6.3 ) _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items (primarily changes in volvo costs and expenses reflecting the sale of these operations). (b) primarily reflects changes in volvo costs and expenses. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below for 2010. total automotive pre-tax operating profit was $5.3 billion, with each automotive segment profitable. the decline in other automotive primarily reflects higher interest expense net of interest income. this is more than explained by interest expense associated with the debt owed to the uaw veba trust that was added at the end of 2009 and prepaid in full during 2010, and the interest expense associated with our convertible debt issued in november 2009, offset partially by lower interest expense on our revolving debt which was 90% repaid in 2010. 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford north america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2010 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2009 by causal factor. the increase in wholesales for ford north america primarily reflects higher u.s. industry volume, market share , and the non-recurrence of prior-year reductions in dealer stocks. in the united states, continued consumer awareness of our improvements in quality and fuel efficiency are driving strong consideration and demand for ford products, which has enabled us to achieve market share gains and improve net pricing. the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable volume and mix, net pricing, and changes in currency exchange, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes. the unfavorable cost changes primarily reflect higher structural costs driven primarily by higher manufacturing costs to support higher volume and product launches . 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford south america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2010 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2009 by causal factor. the increase in wholesales for ford south america primarily reflects higher industry volume, offset partially by lower market share and the non-recurrence of prior-year increases in dealer stocks. the decrease in market share primarily reflects planned lower production in venezuela . the increase in earnings is more than explained by favorable net pricing , changes in currency exchange, and favorable volume and mix, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes (primarily higher commodity and structural costs). 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford europe segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2010 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2009 by causal factor. the increase in wholesales for ford europe primarily reflects higher wholesales in turkey, russia, and other eastern european markets, offset partially by lower wholesales in the 19 markets that we track (primarily lower market share and industry volume, offset partially by the non-recurrence of prior-year reductions in dealer stocks). the decrease in market share reflects our decision to reduce participation selectively in low-margin business, as well as the end of the favorable effect of government scrappage programs on our small car sales. the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable cost changes and higher parts and subsidiary profits, offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix (primarily lower market share offset partially by the non-recurrence of prior-year reductions in dealer stocks). the favorable cost changes primarily reflect material cost reductions and lower warranty costs, offset partially by higher structural costs (in part to support product launches and growth of our product plans). 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford asia pacific africa segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2010 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2009 by causal factor. the increase in wholesales for ford asia pacific africa primarily reflects higher industry volume (primarily in china and india), increase in dealer stocks, and higher market share. the increase in market share primarily reflects share gains in india, as well as china, driven by new model introductions. the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable volume and mix (higher industry volume offset partially by unfavorable mix) and favorable cost changes (material cost reductions and lower freight and warranty costs, offset by higher structural costs to support investment in our product and growth plans). 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector 2011 compared with 2010 as shown in the total company discussion above, we present our financial services sector results in two segments, ford credit and other financial services. ford credit, in turn, has two segments, north america and international. ford credit the chart below details the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. the decline in ford credit's pre-tax operating profit reflects fewer leases being terminated and the related vehicles sold at a gain, and lower credit loss reserve reductions. results of ford credit's operations and unallocated risk management for the years ended december 31 are shown below (in millions): 2011 2010 2011 over/(under) 2010 income/(loss) before income taxes north america segment $ 2,159 $ 2,785 $ (626 ) international segment 371 354 17 unallocated risk management (a) (126 ) (85 ) (41 ) income/(loss) before income taxes $ 2,404 $ 3,054 $ (650 ) __________ (a) consists of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives primarily related to movements in interest rates. the full-year decrease in ford credit's north america segment pre-tax earnings is more than explained by fewer leases being terminated and the related vehicles sold at a gain, and lower credit loss reserve reductions. the full-year increase in its international segment pre-tax results is more than explained by foreign currency translation adjustments related to the discontinuation of financing in australia. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's receivables, including finance receivables and operating leases, at december 31 were as follows (in billions): 2011 2010 2009 receivables finance receivables - north america segment consumer retail installment and direct financing leases $ 38.4 $ 39.1 $ 42.3 non-consumer wholesale 15.5 13.3 13.3 dealer loan and other 2.1 1.9 1.9 total north america segment - finance receivables (a) 56.0 54.3 57.5 finance receivables - international segment consumer retail installment and direct financing leases 9.1 10.6 14.0 non-consumer wholesale 8.5 8.7 9.1 dealer loan and other 0.4 0.4 0.5 total international segment - finance receivables (a) 18.0 19.7 23.6 unearned interest supplements (1.6 ) (1.9 ) (1.9 ) allowance for credit losses (0.5 ) (0.8 ) (1.3 ) finance receivables, net 71.9 71.3 77.9 net investment in operating leases (a) 11.1 10.0 14.6 total receivables (b) $ 83.0 $ 81.3 $ 92.5 memo: total managed receivables (c) $ 84.6 $ 83.2 $ 94.5 __________ (a) at december 31, 2011 and 2010, includes consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $36 billion and $35.8 billion, respectively, and non-consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $19.8 billion and $18.7 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's consolidated financial statements. in addition, at december 31, 2011 and 2010, includes net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses of $6.4 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, that have been included in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's financial statements. the receivables are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors. ford credit holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each of these securitization transactions. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding securitization transactions. (b) includes allowance for credit losses of $534 million and $854 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) excludes unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables. receivables at december 31, 2011 increased from year-end 2010, primarily due to higher ford and lincoln receivables, partially offset by the discontinuation of financing for jaguar, land rover, mazda, volvo, and mercury and changes in currency exchange rates. at december 31, 2011, jaguar, land rover, mazda, and volvo receivables represented about 2% of ford credit's managed receivables. in addition, the mercury financing portfolio represented about 1% of ford credit's managed receivables at december 31, 2011. these percentages will decline over time. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit losses. the chart below details annual trends in charge-offs (credit losses, net of recoveries), loss-to-receivables ("ltr") ratios (charge-offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding, excluding the reserve and unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables), credit loss reserve, and credit loss reserve as a percentage of end-of-period ("eop") receivables: ford credit's charge-offs are down from 2010 levels, primarily reflecting lower repossessions in the united states and lower losses in europe, offset partially by lower recoveries in the united states. the loss-to-receivables ratio is almost 50% lower than 2010, and is the lowest ford credit has seen in the last decade. reserves and reserves as a percentage of eop receivables both are lower than a year ago, reflecting the decrease in charge-offs. the allowance for credit losses is estimated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on such factors as portfolio quality, historical loss performance, and receivable levels. in purchasing retail finance and lease contracts, ford credit uses a proprietary scoring system that classifies contracts using several factors, such as credit bureau information, credit bureau scores (e.g., fico score), customer characteristics, and contract characteristics. in addition to ford credit's proprietary scoring system, it considers other factors, such as employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, ford credit classified between 5% - 6% of its outstanding u.s. retail finance and lease contracts in its portfolio as high risk at contract inception. residual risk. ford credit is exposed to residual risk on operating leases and similar balloon payment products where the customer may return the financed vehicle to ford credit. residual risk is the possibility that the amount ford credit obtains from returned vehicles will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. for additional discussion, see "critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases" below. north america retail operating lease experience ford credit uses various statistics to monitor its residual risk: placement volume measures the number of leases ford credit purchases in a given period; termination volume measures the number of vehicles for which the lease has ended in the given period; and return volume reflects the number of vehicles returned to ford credit by customers at lease-end. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's north america segment accounted for 96% of its total operating leases at december 31, 2011. the following table shows operating lease placement, termination, and return volumes for this segment for the years ended december 31 (in thousands, except for percentages): 2011 2010 2009 placements 219 120 67 terminations 246 408 386 returns 144 281 314 memo: return rates 59 % 69 % 81 % in 2011, placement volumes were up 99,000 units compared with 2010, primarily reflecting higher industry sales, higher ford market share, and changes in ford's marketing programs. termination volumes decreased by 162,000 units in 2011 compared with 2010, reflecting lower placement volumes in the second half of 2008 and 2009. return volumes decreased 137,000 units in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily reflecting fewer terminations and lower return rates. u.s. ford and lincoln brand operating lease experience the following chart shows annual return volumes and auction values at incurred vehicle mix for vehicles returned in the respective periods. ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln lease share was about 15% in 2011, and the operating lease portfolio accounted for about 85% of its total investment in operating leases at december 31, 2011. ford credit's lease return volumes in 2011 were almost 50% lower than the same period the prior year, primarily reflecting lower lease placements in 2008 and 2009. in addition, the 2011 lease return rate was 56%, down 9 percentage points compared with 2010, reflecting the increase in used vehicle prices. in 2011, ford credit's strong auction values for 36-month vehicles continued, increasing by $740 per unit from 2010. ford credit's worldwide net investment in operating leases was $11.1 billion at the end of 2011, up from $10 billion in 2010. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2010 compared with 2009 the chart below details the change in 2010 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2009 by causal factor. the full-year increase was explained primarily by a lower provision for credit losses and lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles due to higher auction values; partial offsets included lower volume and other items, primarily reflecting the non-recurrence of net gains related to unhedged currency exposure from cross-border intercompany lending. liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by generating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding. for a discussion of risks to our liquidity, see "item 1a. risk factors," as well as note 30 of the notes to the financial statements regarding commitments and contingencies that could impact our liquidity. gross cash. automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, net of any securities-in-transit. gross cash at december 31 was as follows (in billions): 2011 2010 2009 cash and cash equivalents $ 7.9 $ 6.3 $ 9.7 marketable securities (a) 15.0 14.2 15.2 total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 22.9 20.5 24.9 securities-in-transit (b) gross cash $ 22.9 $ 20.5 $ 24.9 __________ (a) included at december 31, 2011 are ford credit debt securities that we purchased, which are reflected in the table at a carrying value of $201 million, the estimated fair value of which is $201 million. also included are mazda marketable securities with a fair value of $110 million. for similar datapoints for the other periods listed here, see our prior-period financial reports. (b) the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and for which there was a payable or receivable recorded on the balance sheet at period-end. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include u.s. treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, a-1/p-1 (or higher) rated commercial paper, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. within our automotive gross cash portfolio, we currently do not hold investments in government obligations of greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain, nor did we hold any at december 31, 2011. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive gross cash into operating-related and other items (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions, acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the financial services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other - primarily financing-related). our key liquidity metrics are operating-related cash flow (which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash), automotive gross cash, and automotive liquidity. these items at december 31 were as follows (in billions): 2011 2010 gross cash $ 22.9 $ 20.5 available credit lines: secured credit facility, unutilized portion 8.8 6.9 local lines available to foreign affiliates, unutilized portion 0.7 0.5 automotive liquidity $ 32.4 $ 27.9 we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash. this differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ("gaap") and differs from net cash (used in)/provided by operating activities , the most directly comparable gaap financial measure. changes in automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions): 2011 2010 (a) 2009 gross cash at end of period $ 22.9 $ 20.5 $ 24.9 gross cash at beginning of period 20.5 24.9 13.1 total change in gross cash $ 2.4 $ (4.4 ) $ 11.8 automotive income/(loss) before income taxes (excluding special items) $ 6.3 $ 5.3 $ (1.9 ) capital expenditures (4.3 ) (3.9 ) (4.0 ) depreciation and special tools amortization 3.6 3.8 4.2 changes in working capital (b) 0.3 (0.1 ) 3.7 other/timing differences (c) 0.2 (0.8 ) subvention payments to ford credit (d) (0.3 ) (0.9 ) (2.0 ) total operating-related cash flows 5.6 4.4 (0.8 ) cash impact of personnel-reduction programs accrual (0.3 ) (0.2 ) (0.7 ) net receipts from financial services sector (e) 4.2 2.7 1.0 other (0.2 ) (0.8 ) (1.1 ) cash flow before other actions 9.3 6.1 (1.6 ) net proceeds from/(payments on) automotive sector debt (6.0 ) (12.1 ) 11.9 contributions to funded pension plans (1.1 ) (1.0 ) (0.9 ) proceeds from the sale of volvo/other 0.2 2.6 2.4 total change in gross cash $ 2.4 $ (4.4 ) $ 11.8 __________ (a) except as noted, volvo's 2010 cash flows are excluded from each line item of this table and included in other. (b) working capital comprised of changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables. (c) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, compensation, marketing, and warranty, as well as additional factors, such as the impact of tax payments. (d) beginning in 2008, ford began paying all interest-rate subvention and residual value support to ford credit at the time of origination of new contracts. cash flows represented here reflect ford's monthly support payments on contracts existing prior to 2008. (e) primarily distributions and tax payments received from ford credit. with respect to "changes in working capital," in general we carry relatively low trade receivables compared to our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. in addition, these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement net cash (used in)/provided by operating activities and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2011 2010 (a) 2009 net cash (used in)/provided by operating activities (b) (c) $ 9.4 $ 6.4 $ 2.9 items included in operating-related cash flows capital expenditures (4.3 ) (3.9 ) (4.0 ) proceeds from the exercise of stock options 0.1 0.3 net cash flows from non-designated derivatives 0.1 (0.2 ) (0.1 ) items not included in operating-related cash flows cash impact of job security benefits and personnel-reduction actions 0.3 0.2 0.7 contributions to funded pension plans 1.1 1.0 0.9 tax refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates (1.4 ) (0.2 ) (0.6 ) other (b) 0.3 0.8 (0.6 ) operating-related cash flows $ 5.6 $ 4.4 $ (0.8 ) __________ (a) except as noted (see footnote (b) below), 2010 data exclude volvo. (b) 2010 includes volvo. (c) 2009 and 2010 are adjusted to reflect the reallocation of amounts previously displayed in "net change in intersector receivables/payables and other liabilities" on our sector statement of cash flows. these amounts were reallocated from a single line item to the individual cash flow line items within operating, investing, and financing activities of continuing operations on our sector statement of cash flows. credit agreement . at december 31, 2011, commitments under the revolving credit facility of our credit agreement totaled $8.9 billion, which includes an increase of $1.7 billion of commitments we obtained in the first quarter of 2011. the $8.9 billion of revolving commitments terminate on november 30, 2013. during 2011, we prepaid in full the term loans outstanding under the credit agreement and $821 million of 2011 revolving commitments terminated as scheduled on december 15, 2011. at december 31, 2011, the utilized portion of the $8.9 billion of 2013 revolving commitments was $131 million, representing amounts utilized as letters of credit. none of the lenders under our credit agreement is a financial institution based in greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain. the borrowings of the company, the subsidiary borrowers, and the guarantors under the credit agreement are secured by a substantial portion of our domestic automotive assets (excluding cash). the collateral includes a majority of our principal domestic manufacturing facilities, excluding facilities to be closed, subject to limitations set forth in existing public indentures and other unsecured credit agreements; domestic accounts receivable; domestic inventory; up to $4 billion of marketable securities or cash proceeds therefrom; 100% of the stock of our principal domestic subsidiaries, including ford credit (but excluding the assets of ford credit); ford motor company of canada, limited intercompany notes (limited to its total tangible assets); 66% to 100% of the stock of all major first tier non-u.s. subsidiaries; and certain domestic intellectual property, including trademarks. under the terms of the credit agreement, the collateral automatically will be released when our unsecured, long-term debt is rated investment grade by any two of fitch, moody's and s&amp;p (as defined below under "credit ratings") (the "collateral release date"). the credit agreement requires ongoing compliance with a borrowing base covenant until the collateral release date and contains other restrictive covenants, including limitations on the amount of cash dividends we can pay. in addition, the credit agreement contains a liquidity covenant requiring us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, loaned and marketable securities, and/or availability under the revolving credit facility. with respect to the borrowing base covenant, we are required to limit the outstanding amount of debt under the credit agreement as well as certain permitted additional indebtedness secured by the collateral described above such that the total debt outstanding does not exceed the value of the collateral as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement (the "borrowing base value"). 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table provides detail of borrowing base values for various categories of collateral (in millions, except percentages): eligible value (a) advance rate borrowing base u.s. receivables $ 900 75 % $ 675 u.s. inventory 1,894 60 % 1,136 pledge of ford motor company of canada, limited intercompany notes (limited to its total tangible assets) 294 100 % 294 pledge of equity in ford credit and certain non-u.s. subsidiaries (net of intercompany transactions) 18,180 75 % 13,635 u.s. property, plant, and equipment subject to indenture limitation 3,821 48 % 1,836 other u.s. machinery and equipment 2,595 40 % 1,038 intellectual property and u.s. trademarks (b) 7,900 32 % 2,500 eligible value/borrowing base $ 35,584 $ 21,114 __________ (a) based on formulas set forth in the credit agreement, and not necessarily indicative of fair market value (which could be materially higher or lower); receivables, inventory, intercompany notes, and property, plant and equipment reflect net book value at december 31, 2011; equity of ford credit is based on its book value at december 31, 2011, net of certain intercompany transactions, and equity in other subsidiaries is based on a multiple of their two-year average earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("ebitda") less debt. for these purposes, ebitda is defined as statutorily-reported consolidated operating income plus depreciation and amortization. (b) value reflects independent third-party valuation of trademarks. as of december 31, 2011, the borrowing base value and the total outstanding amount of debt and letters of credit secured by collateral were $21,114 million and $131 million, respectively, compared with $22,141 million and $5,298 million, respectively, at december 31, 2010. this resulted in a collateral coverage ratio of 161.18 to 1 at december 31, 2011, compared with a collateral coverage ratio of 4.18 to 1 at december 31, 2010. the borrowing base covenant requires a collateral coverage ratio of at least 1 to 1 assuming the revolving credit facility is fully drawn. on a basis that assumes the revolving loan facility is fully drawn, the collateral coverage ratio at december 31, 2011 (2.38 to 1) increased from that at december 31, 2010 (1.82 to 1), reflecting prepayment in full of the term loans and termination of the 2011 revolving commitments. in addition to customary payment, representation, bankruptcy, and judgment defaults, the credit agreement contains cross-payment and cross-acceleration defaults with respect to other debt for borrowed money, and a change-in-control default provision. we are in the process of seeking to extend the termination date of the revolving credit facility under our credit agreement from november 30, 2013 to november 30, 2015, and to make certain other modifications to the credit agreement. u.s. department of energy ("doe") advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ("atvm") incentive program . we submitted to the doe an application dated november 18, 2008 for term loans totaling $11.4 billion pursuant to the doe's atvm program. our application, which was deemed substantially complete on december 16, 2008, related to atvm program expenditures approved by the doe to be made by us extending beyond 2011. by mutual agreement, our application was amended and restated on june 12, 2009 (as so amended and restated, the "application") to request, initially, term loans totaling $5.9 billion to fund up to 80% of the atvm program expenditures approved through mid-2012. the atvm program was authorized by section 136 of the energy independence and security act of 2007, as amended from time to time, to provide up to $25 billion of loans to automobile and automobile part manufacturers for the cost of re-equipping, expanding, or establishing manufacturing facilities in the united states to produce advanced technology vehicles or qualified components, and for associated engineering integration costs. loans under the atvm program are made by and through the federal financing bank, an instrumentality of the u.s. government created by the federal financing bank act of 1973 that is under the general supervision of the secretary of the treasury. as disclosed in our current report on form 8-k dated september 16, 2009 (the "september 2009 form 8-k report"), we entered into a loan arrangement and reimbursement agreement ("arrangement agreement") with the doe, pursuant to which the doe agreed to (i) arrange a 13-year multi-draw term loan facility (the "facility") under the atvm program in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5.9 billion, (ii) designate us as a borrower under the atvm program and (iii) cause the federal financing bank to enter into a note purchase agreement (the "note purchase agreement") for the purchase of notes to be issued by us evidencing such loans. the proceeds of advances under the facility are to be used to finance certain costs for alternative technology vehicles eligible for financing under the atvm program that are incurred through mid-2012. advances under the existing facility may be requested through december 31, 2012. each advance under the facility bears interest at a blended rate based on the treasury yield curve at the time such advance is 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) borrowed, based on the principal amortization schedule for that advance, with interest payable quarterly in arrears. the principal amount of the loans under the facility is payable in quarterly installments, commencing on september 15, 2012, through june 15, 2022. through december 31, 2011, we have received $4.8 billion in loans under the facility and the weighted-average interest rate on such loans is about 2.5% per annum. for additional details regarding the arrangement agreement and the note purchase agreement, refer to exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 filed with the september 2009 form 8-k report. european investment bank ("eib") credit facility. on july 12, 2010, ford motor company limited, our operating subsidiary in the united kingdom ("ford of britain"), entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 450 million with the eib. proceeds of loans drawn under the facility are being used for research and development of fuel-efficient engines and commercial vehicles with lower emissions, and related upgrades to an engine manufacturing plant. the facility was fully drawn in the third quarter of 2010, and ford of britain had outstanding $698 million of loans at december 31, 2011. the loans are five-year, non-amortizing loans secured by a guarantee from the u.k. government for 80% of the outstanding principal amount and cash collateral from ford of britain equal to 20% of the outstanding principal amount, and bear interest at a fixed rate of approximately 3.6% per annum (excluding a commitment fee of 0.30% to the u.k. government). ford of britain has pledged substantially all of its fixed assets, receivables, and inventory to the u.k. government as collateral, and we have guaranteed ford of britain's obligations to the u.k. government related to the government's guarantee. u.s. ex-im bank and private export funding corporation ("pefco") secured revolving loan. on december 21, 2010, we entered into a credit agreement with pefco and ex-im bank. under the terms of the credit agreement, pefco provided us with a $250 million revolving credit facility and ex-im bank provided a guarantee to pefco for 100% of the outstanding principal amount of the loan, which is secured by our in-transit vehicle inventory to canada and mexico. the facility is used to finance vehicles exported for sale to canada and mexico that were manufactured in our u.s. assembly plants. the facility was fully drawn in the fourth quarter of 2010 and we had outstanding a $250 million loan at december 31, 2011. the loan matures on march 20, 2012 and bears interest at libor, at a time period that most closely parallels the advancement term, plus a margin of 1% (excluding a facility fee of 1.6%), with interest payable monthly. other automotive credit facilities. at december 31, 2011, we had $817 million of local credit facilities to non-u.s. automotive affiliates, of which $74 million has been utilized. of the $817 million of committed credit facilities, $66 million expires in 2012, $165 million expires in 2013, $223 million expires in 2014, and $363 million expires in 2015. net cash. our automotive sector net cash calculation at december 31 was as follows (in billions): 2011 2010 gross cash $ 22.9 $ 20.5 less: long-term debt 12.1 17.1 debt payable within one year 1.0 2.0 total debt 13.1 19.1 net cash $ 9.8 $ 1.4 total debt at december 31, 2011 decreased by $6 billion from december 31, 2010, reflecting the redemption of our trust preferred securities in the first quarter of 2011, resulting in a reduction of about $3 billion, and payments made throughout the year of $4.9 billion on our term loans and revolving credit facility under the credit agreement, offset partially by an increase in low-cost government loans to support advanced technology vehicle development. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for our debt maturity table as of december 31, 2011 and additional debt disclosures. pension plan contributions and strategy. worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $15.4 billion at december 31, 2011, compared with being underfunded by $11.5 billion at december 31, 2010. the deterioration primarily reflects sharply lower discount rates, with the u.s. weighted-average discount rate declining to 4.64% at the end of 2011 from 5.24% at the end of 2010. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our long-term strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy will reduce balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduce our risk profile. the key elements of this strategy include: limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants; reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions; progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation to be reached over the next several years of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities. in 2011, we contributed $1.1 billion to our worldwide funded pension plans and made $400 million of benefit payments directly by the company for unfunded plans. during 2012, we expect to contribute from automotive cash and cash equivalents $3.5 billion to our worldwide funded plans (including discretionary contributions to our u.s. plans of $2 billion), and to make $350 million of benefit payments directly by the company for unfunded plans, for a total of about $3.8 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. pension plans in 2012. as disclosed previously, based on present planning assumptions for long-term asset returns, a normalization of discount rates and planned cash contributions, we expect our global pension obligations in total to be fully funded over the next few years, with variability on a plan-by-plan basis. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. liquidity sufficiency . one of the four key priorities of our business plan is to finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business. the actions described above are consistent with this priority. based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products that customers want and value, grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide a cushion within an uncertain global economic environment. we will continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet, primarily by working to ensure our underlying business generates positive automotive operating-related cash flow, even as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. within the limitations provided under our credit agreement, on december 8, 2011, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.05 per share on our common and class b stock, payable on march 1, 2012 to stockholders of record on january 31, 2012. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector ford credit funding strategy. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels and investors. ford credit's liquidity remains strong, and it maintains cash balances and committed capacity that meet its business and funding requirements in all global market conditions. ford credit completed its full year funding plan despite volatile market conditions. in 2011, it completed $35 billion of term funding, including $19 billion in the public market and $16 billion of private securitizations. ford credit's public unsecured issuance was over $8 billion, including over $800 million issued under its u.s. retail notes program which it reintroduced in 2011. the public retail securitization transactions included $2.5 billion from ford credit's fuel notes program. these are 5-year notes backed by automotive retail finance receivables. the fuel notes will be mandatorily exchanged for ford credit unsecured notes having the same maturity and interest rate upon ford credit's senior unsecured debt receiving two investment grade credit ratings among s&amp;p, moody's, and fitch. after the mandatory exchange, ford credit expects to reacquire the assets supporting the fuel notes. ford credit ended the year with over $17 billion of liquidity and about $33 billion of committed capacity, compared with about $34 billion at december 31, 2010. throughout 2011, ford credit generally saw lower costs across the facilities it renewed. ford credit's funding plan is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, including disruption in the capital markets that could impact both unsecured debt and asset-backed securities issuances and the effects of regulatory reform efforts on the financial markets. potential impacts of industry events and regulation on ford credit's ability to access debt and derivatives markets, or renew its committed liquidity programs in sufficient amounts and at competitive rates, represents another risk to its funding plan. as a result of such events or regulation, ford credit may need to reduce new originations of receivables, thereby reducing its ongoing profits and adversely affecting its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. funding. ford credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. its funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of ford products, which are influenced by ford-sponsored special-rate financing programs that are available exclusively through ford credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. ford credit's funding sources include primarily securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and unsecured debt. ford credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short- and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states, europe, mexico, and other international markets. at december 31, 2011, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $4.7 billion. at present, all of ford credit's short-term credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("nrsros") are below the tier-2 category, and as a result it has limited access to the unsecured commercial paper market, and ford credit's unsecured commercial paper cannot be held by money market funds. at december 31, 2011, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was about $150 million, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in mexico and europe. ford credit does not hold reserves specifically to fund the payment of any of its unsecured short-term funding obligations. instead, ford credit maintains multiple sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and uncommitted credit facilities, which should be sufficient for ford credit's unsecured short-term funding obligations. u.s. financial industry regulations. see "item 1a. risk factors" ("item 1a") for discussion of new or increased credit, consumer, data protection, or other regulations. 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding portfolio. the chart below details the trends in the funding of ford credit's managed receivables: __________ (a) the ford interest advantage program consists of ford credit's floating rate demand notes. (b) obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. (c) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. at year-end 2011, managed receivables were $85 billion. ford credit ended the year with $12.1 billion in cash, and securitized funding was 55% of managed receivables. ford credit is projecting 2012 year-end managed receivables in the range of $85 billion to $95 billion and securitized funding is expected to represent about 49% to 54% of total managed receivables. the lower end of this range reflects, in part, fuel notes converting to unsecured debt. it is ford credit's expectation that the securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables will decline going forward. funding plan. the following table illustrates ford credit's planned issuances for full-year 2012 and its public and private term funding issuances in 2011, 2010, and 2009 (in billions): term funding plan 2012 forecast 2011 2010 2009 public transactions (a) unsecured $ 8 - 11 $ 8 $ 6 $ 5 securitization transactions (b) 10 - 12 11 11 15 total public term funding $ 18 - 23 $ 19 $ 17 $ 20 private transactions (c) $ 10 - 13 $ 16 $ 8 $ 11 __________ (a) includes rule 144a offerings. (b) includes fuel notes in 2011. (c) includes private term debt, securitizations, other structured financings, and other term funding; excludes sales to fcar. in 2011, ford credit completed $35 billion of term funding. about $19 billion of this was public funding in the united states, canada and europe, including over $8 billion of unsecured debt. ford credit also completed about $16 billion of funding through its private securitization channels across all of its major asset classes and regions. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) for 2012, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $18 billion to $23 billion, consisting of $8 billion to $11 billion of unsecured debt and $10 billion to $12 billion of public securitizations. in addition to the public issuance, ford credit is projecting $10 billion to $13 billion of funding from its private sources. through february 20, 2012, ford credit completed about $7 billion of public term funding transactions, including about $4 billion for retail and wholesale asset-backed securitization transactions in the united states and $3 billion of unsecured issuance in the united states, europe, and canada. ford credit also completed about $1 billion of private term funding transactions, primarily reflecting retail, lease and wholesale asset-backed transactions in the united states, europe, and mexico. funding is expected to be relatively flat in 2012 despite the projected increase in managed receivables, largely reflecting fewer debt maturities. liquidity . the following chart illustrates ford credit's liquidity programs and utilization at december 31, 2011: __________ (a) fcar and conduits subject to availability of sufficient assets and ability to obtain derivatives to manage interest rate risk; fcar commercial paper must be supported by bank lines equal to at least 100% of the principal amount; conduits include other committed securitization programs. (b) securitization cash is to be used only to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. (c) excess capacity is capacity in excess of eligible receivables. (d) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). at december 31, 2011 ford credit had $44.7 billion of committed capacity and cash. after excluding securitization cash and adjusting for available assets, liquidity was $38.6 billion, of which $21.5 billion was utilized, leaving about $17 billion of liquidity available for use. committed capacity at year-end was $32.6 billion, about $1.4 billion higher than at the end of the third quarter of 2011. ford credit ended the year with about $2.4 billion of excess committed capacity, providing a funding source for future originations and flexibility to transfer capacity among markets and asset classes where most needed. at december 31, 2011, ford credit's liquidity available for use was lower than year-end 2010 by about $5.5 billion, reflecting cash payments for debt maturities, repurchases and calls, distributions, and tax payments that were higher than the liquidity generated from profits and new debt issuances. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. at december 31, 2011, ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) totaled $12.1 billion, compared with $14.6 billion at year-end 2010. in the normal course of its funding activities, ford credit may generate more proceeds than are required for its immediate funding needs. these excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for its short-term funding needs and give it flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) primarily include u.s. treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions and non-u.s. central banks, corporate investment-grade securities, a-1/p-1 (or higher) rated commercial paper, debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. government agencies, supranational institutions and money market funds that carry the highest possible ratings. ford credit currently does not hold cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities consisting of investments in government obligations of greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain, nor did ford credit hold any at december 31, 2011. the average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. ford credit monitors its cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities include amounts to be used only to support ford credit's securitization transactions of $3.7 billion and $4.2 billion at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ford credit's substantial liquidity and cash balance have provided the opportunity to selectively call and repurchase its unsecured debt on the open market. for full year 2011, ford credit called about $1.1 billion of its unsecured debt maturities and repurchased about $1.2 billion. credit facilities and committed liquidity programs. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding credit facilities and committed liquidity programs for ford credit. while there is a risk of non-renewal of some of ford credit's committed liquidity programs, which could lead to a reduction in the size of these programs and/or higher costs, ford credit's capacity in excess of eligible receivables would enable it to absorb some reductions. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under these programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for certain securitization transactions. balance sheet liquidity profile. ford credit defines its balance sheet liquidity profile as the cumulative maturities of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash less the cumulative debt maturities over upcoming annual periods. the following chart shows ford credit's cumulative maturities for the periods presented at december 31, 2011: __________ (a) includes finance receivables net of unearned income, investment in operating leases net of accumulated depreciation, cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (b) retail and lease abs are treated as amortizing immediately to match the underlying assets. (c) includes all of the wholesale abs term and conduit maturities of $4.8 billion that otherwise contractually extend to 2013 and beyond. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. maturities of investment in operating leases consist primarily of rental payments attributable to depreciation over the remaining life of the lease and the expected residual value at lease termination. maturities of finance receivables and investment in operating leases in the chart above include expected prepayments for our retail installment sale contracts and investment in operating leases. the 2012 finance receivables maturities in the chart above also include all of the wholesale receivables maturities that are otherwise extending beyond 2012. the chart above also reflects the following adjustments to debt maturities to match all of the asset-backed debt maturities with the underlying asset maturities: the 2012 maturities include all of the wholesale securitization transactions, even if the maturities extend beyond 2012; and retail securitization transactions under certain committed liquidity programs are assumed to amortize immediately rather than after their contractual maturity even if it extends beyond january 1, 2012. leverage . ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for retail, wholesale, and lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. ford credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity. the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage at december 31 (in billions, except for ratios): 2011 2010 2009 total debt $ 84.7 $ 82.9 $ 96.3 equity 8.9 10.3 11.0 financial statement leverage (to 1) 9.5 8.0 8.8 the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's managed leverage at december 31 (in billions, except for ratios): 2011 2010 2009 total debt $ 84.7 $ 82.9 $ 96.3 securitized off-balance sheet receivables outstanding 0.1 adjustments for cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (a) (12.1 ) (14.6 ) (17.3 ) adjustments for derivative accounting (b) (0.7 ) (0.3 ) (0.2 ) total adjusted debt $ 71.9 $ 68.0 $ 78.9 equity $ 8.9 $ 10.3 $ 11.0 adjustments for derivative accounting (b) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) total adjusted equity $ 8.7 $ 10.2 $ 10.8 managed leverage (to 1) (c) 8.3 6.7 7.3 ________ (a) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. (b) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. (c) equals total adjusted debt over total adjusted equity. ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit believes the managed leverage measure provides its investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2011, ford credit's managed leverage was 8.3 to 1 compared with 6.7 to 1 at december 31, 2010, significantly below the threshold of 11.5 to 1 set forth in the amended and restated support agreement with us. by mid-decade, ford credit expects its leverage to be in the range of 10 - 11 to 1. in 2011, ford credit paid $3 billion in distributions to its parent. securitization transactions by ford credit securitization. ford credit securitizes finance receivables and net investment in operating leases through a variety of programs, using amortizing, variable funding, and revolving structures. ford credit also sells finance receivables in structured financing transactions. due to the similarities between securitization and structured financing, ford credit refers to structured financings as securitization transactions. ford credit's securitization programs are targeted to many different institutional investors in both public and private transactions in capital markets worldwide. ford credit completed its first securitization transaction in 1988, and regularly securitizes assets, purchased or originated, in the united states, canada, mexico, and european countries. all of ford credit's securitization transactions involve sales to consolidated entities or ford credit maintains control over the assets, and, therefore, the securitized assets and related debt remain on its balance sheet. all of ford credit's securitization transactions since the first quarter of 2007 have been on-balance sheet transactions. securitization transactions have an effect on ford credit's financial condition, operating results, and liquidity. ford credit securitizes its assets because the securitization market provides it with a lower cost source of funding compared with unsecured debt given ford credit's present credit ratings, and it diversifies ford credit's funding among different markets and investors. in the united states, ford credit is, in most cases, able to obtain funding in two days for its unutilized capacity in most of its committed liquidity programs. new programs and new transaction structures typically require substantial development time before coming to market. in a securitization transaction, the securitized assets are generally held by a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity ("spe") in order to isolate the securitized assets from the claims of ford credit's other creditors and ensure that the cash flows on the securitized assets are available for the benefit of securitization investors. as a result, payments to securitization investors are based on the creditworthiness of the securitized assets and any enhancements, and not on ford credit's creditworthiness. senior asset-backed securities issued by the spes generally receive the highest short-term credit ratings and among the highest long-term credit ratings from the rating agencies that rate them. securitization spes have limited purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase the securitized assets, issue asset-backed securities, and make payments on the securities. some spes, such as certain trusts that issue securities backed by retail installment sale contracts, only issue a single series of securities and generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in full. other spes, such as the trusts that issue securities backed by wholesale receivables, issue multiple series of securities from time to time and are not dissolved until the last series of securities is paid in full. ford credit's use of spes in its securitization transactions is consistent with conventional practices in the consumer asset-backed securitization industry. ford credit sponsors the spes used in all of its securitization programs with the exception of bank-sponsored conduits. none of ford credit's officers, directors, or employees holds any equity interests in its spes or receives any direct or indirect compensation from the spes. these spes do not own ford credit's shares or shares of any of its affiliates. in order to be eligible for inclusion in a securitization transaction, each asset must satisfy certain eligibility criteria designed for the specific transaction. for example, for securitization transactions of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria may be based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, the type of financed vehicle, and whether the contracts are active and in good standing (e.g., when the obligor is not more than 30-days delinquent or bankrupt). generally, ford credit selects the assets to be included in a particular securitization randomly from its entire portfolio of assets that satisfy the applicable eligibility criteria. ford credit provides various forms of credit enhancements to reduce the risk of loss for securitization investors. credit enhancements include over-collateralization (when the principal amount of the securitized assets exceeds the principal amount of related asset-backed securities), segregated cash reserve funds, subordinated securities, and excess spread (when interest collections on the securitized assets exceed the related fees and expenses, including interest payments on the related asset-backed securities). ford credit may also provide payment enhancements that increase the likelihood of the timely payment of interest and the payment of principal at maturity. payment enhancements include yield supplement arrangements, interest rate swaps, and other hedging arrangements, liquidity facilities, and certain cash deposits. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit retains interests in its securitization transactions, including primarily subordinated securities issued by the spe, rights to cash held for the benefit of the securitization investors (for example, a reserve fund), and residual interests. residual interests represent the right to receive collections on the securitized assets in excess of amounts needed to pay securitization investors and to pay other transaction participants and expenses. ford credit retains credit risk in securitization transactions because its retained interests include the most subordinated interests in the securitized assets and are structured to absorb expected credit losses on the securitized assets before any losses would be experienced by investors. based on past experience, ford credit expects that any losses in the pool of securitized assets would likely be limited to its retained interests. ford credit is engaged as servicer to collect and service the securitized assets. its servicing duties include collecting payments on the securitized assets and preparing monthly investor reports on the performance of the securitized assets and on amounts of interest and/or principal payments to be made to investors. while servicing securitized assets, ford credit applies the same servicing policies and procedures that ford credit applies to its owned assets and maintains its normal relationship with its financing customers. ford credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any securitized asset that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. securitization investors have no recourse to ford credit or its other assets for credit losses on the securitized assets and have no right to require ford credit to repurchase the investments. ford credit does not guarantee any asset-backed securities, although it is the co-obligor of the debt of a consolidated vie up to $250 million for two of its securitization transactions, and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional assets to its spes either due to the performance of the securitized assets or the credit rating of its short-term or long-term debt. however, as the seller and servicer of the securitized assets, ford credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitization transactions, which are customary in the securitization industry. these obligations include indemnifications, repurchase obligations on assets that do not meet representations or warranties on eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional assets in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of certain amounts. risks to continued funding under securitization programs. the following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent ford credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: retail securitization. if the credit enhancement on any asset-backed security held by fcar is reduced to zero, fcar may not purchase any additional asset-backed securities or issue additional commercial paper and would wind down its operations. in addition, if credit losses or delinquencies in ford credit's portfolio of retail assets exceed specified levels, fcar is not permitted to purchase additional asset-backed securities for so long as such levels are exceeded. retail conduits. if credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of assets held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of over-collateralization or credit enhancements for such pool decreases below a specified level, ford credit will not have the right to sell additional pools of assets to that conduit. wholesale securitization. if the payment rates on wholesale receivables in the securitization trust are lower than specified levels or if there are significant dealer defaults, ford credit will be unable to obtain additional funding and any existing funding would begin to amortize. lease warehouse . if credit losses or delinquencies in ford credit's portfolio of retail lease contracts exceed specified levels, ford credit will be unable to obtain additional funding from the securitization of retail lease contracts through its lease warehouse facility (i.e., a credit facility under which draws are backed by the retail lease contracts). in the past, these features have not limited ford credit's ability to use securitization to fund its operations. in addition to the specific transaction-related structural features discussed above, ford credit's securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: market disruption and volatility, the market capacity for ford credit and ford credit's sponsored investments, the general demand for the type of assets supporting the asset-backed securities, the availability of committed liquidity facilities, the amount and credit quality of assets available, the performance of assets in its previous securitization transactions, accounting and regulatory changes, and ford credit's credit ratings. in addition, a bankruptcy of ford, ford credit, or fce would cause certain of ford credit's funding transactions to amortize and result in a termination of certain liquidity commitments. if, as a result of any of these or other factors, the cost of securitization funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitization transactions were no longer available to ford credit, it would have a material adverse impact on ford credit's financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) on-balance sheet arrangements all of ford credit's securitization transactions involve sales to consolidated entities or it maintains control over the assets and, therefore, the securitized assets and related debt remain on ford credit's balance sheet. the securitized assets are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions. they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors. ford credit holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions. this debt is not ford credit's obligation nor the obligation of its other subsidiaries. assets and associated liabilities related to ford credit's on-balance sheet securitization transactions at december 31 were as follows (in billions): 2011 2010 total outstanding principal amount of finance receivables and net investment in operating leases included in on-balance sheet securitization transactions are as follows (in billions): $ 62.2 $ 60.7 cash balances to be used only to support the on-balance sheet securitizations 3.7 4.2 debt payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements 46.7 43.6 see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding on-balance sheet securitization transactions. total company equity/(deficit). at december 31, 2011 , total equity/(deficit) attributable to ford motor company was $15 billion, an improvement of $15.7 billion compared with december 31, 2010. the improvement is primarily explained by favorable changes in retained earnings, primarily related to 2011 net income attributable to ford of $20.2 billion, offset partially by cash dividends declared of $190 million. the changes in retained earnings are offset partially by unfavorable changes in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), primarily related to pension and opeb adjustments of $3.6 billion and currency translation of $718 million. credit ratings. our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nrsros by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ("dbrs"); fitch, inc. ("fitch"); moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies, inc. ("s&amp;p"). in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. there have been no ratings actions taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and the outlook presently assigned to ford and ford credit by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit issuer default/ corporate/ issuer rating long-term senior unsecured senior secured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend dbrs bb b (high) bbb (low) stable bb (high) r-4 stable fitch bb+ bb+ bbb- positive bb+ b positive moody's ba1 ba2 baa2 positive ba1 np positive s&amp;p bb+ bb+ bbb stable bb+ (a) nr stable __________ (a) s&amp;p assigns fce a long-term senior unsecured rating of bbb-, maintaining a one notch differential versus ford credit. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook we are encouraged by our strong progress, and believe that our one ford plan - to aggressively restructure our business to operate profitably, accelerate development of new products customers want and value, finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet, and work together effectively as one team leveraging our global assets - provides the right strategy to achieve our objectives. our projected vehicle production for the first quarter of 2012 is as follows (in thousands): first quarter 2012 (a) planned vehicle unit production over/(under) first quarter 2011 ford north america 675 18 ford south america 100 (12 ) ford europe 410 (36 ) ford asia pacific africa 215 (21 ) total 1,400 (51 ) __________ (a) includes production of ford and jmc brand vehicles to be sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. the year-over-year decline in planned production reflects lower industry demand in europe and launch-related effects of new products in asia pacific africa. our planned production level is consistent with our disciplined strategy to match production with consumer demand. we expect global economic growth to continue at a pace of about 3% during 2012. economic growth in the united states is expected to be in the range of 2% to 3% for the year. growth in europe, however, remains very challenging. we expect weak conditions in europe, with some markets doing better than others, while fiscal austerity programs are implemented. several key emerging markets, including china, brazil, india, indonesia, thailand, and turkey, have entered cycles of fiscal policy easing to support economic growth. despite recent declines, we expect commodity prices over the longer term to continue to trend upward given global demand growth. overall, we expect the global business environment will favor automotive industry growth in 2012, with global industry sales volume projected to be about 80 million units, up from about 76 million units in 2011. in light of the volatile external environment, however, 2012 industry sales volume could range between 75 million units and 85 million units. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2011, along with our actual results, included the following: 2011 full-year plan 2011 full-year results industry volume (million units) (a) united states 13.0 13.5 13.0 europe (b) 14.5 15.5 15.3 operational metrics compared with prior year: u.s. market share equal / improve 16.5% (up 0.1 ppt.) u.s. retail share of retail market (c) equal / improve 14.0% (equal) europe market share (b) equal / improve 8.3% (down 0.1 ppt.) quality improve mixed financial metrics compared with prior year: total company pre-tax operating profit (d) improve $8.8 bils. (up $0.5 bils.) automotive structural costs (e) higher $1.4 bils. higher commodity costs (incl. hedging) higher $2.3 bils. higher automotive operating margin (d) equal / improve 5.4% (down 0.7 ppt.) automotive operating-related cash flow (f) improve $5.6 bils. (up $1.2 bils.) absolute amount: capital spending $5 billion $5.5 billion $4.3 billion __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) for the 19 markets we track. (c) current quarter estimated; prior periods based on latest polk data. (d) excludes special items; automotive operating margin defined as automotive pre-tax results excluding other automotive divided by automotive revenue. (e) structural cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange, and exclude special items and discontinued operations. (f) see "liquidity and capital resources" discussion above for reconciliation of any datapoints to gaap. within the current economic environment, our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2012 include the following: 2012 full-year plan industry volume (million units) (a) united states 13.5 14.5 europe (b) 14.0 15.0 operational metrics compared with prior year: u.s. market share about equal europe market share (b) about equal quality improve financial metrics compared with prior year: automotive pre-tax operating profit (c) higher ford credit pre-tax operating profit lower total company pre-tax operating profit (c) about equal automotive structural cost increase (d) less than $2 billion automotive operating margin (c) improve absolute amount: capital spending $5.5 billion $6 billion __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) for the 19 markets we track. (c) excludes special items; automotive operating margin defined as automotive pre-tax results excluding other automotive divided by automotive revenue. (d) structural cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange, and exclude special items and discontinued operations. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we see both challenges and opportunities in the current environment. while the uncertainty surrounding the european debt crisis and its impact on the global economy presents a challenge for all, our strong product portfolio and the prospect of global economic growth offer opportunities for our business going forward. although we will monitor closely the economic environment throughout the year, we have established the key planning assumptions and metrics listed in the table above. as indicated, we expect full-year industry volume to range from 13.5 million to 14.5 million units in the united states, and 14 million to 15 million units for the 19 markets we track in europe. we project full-year market share in the united states and europe will be about equal compared with 2011. for quality, we expect to deliver year-over-year improvement. compared with 2011, we expect the following 2012 financial performance, excluding special items: automotive pre-tax operating profit to improve ford credit to be solidly profitable, although at a lower level total company pre-tax operating profit to be about equal automotive structural costs to increase by less than $2 billion as we support higher volumes, new product launches, and growth plans automotive operating margin to improve we expect capital spending to be in a range of $5.5 billion to $6 billion as we continue to invest in our business, and we expect a non-material increase in our commodity costs in 2012 compared with 2011. we expect net interest in 2012 to be about equal to 2011; while interest expense will be reduced reflecting lower debt levels, lower interest rates result in reduced interest income. as discussed in "results of operations" above, we expect ford north america to continue as the core of our automotive operations, with improved profitability for full-year 2012 compared with 2011. looking ahead for ford south america, competition in the region is intensifying with a number of manufacturers substantially increasing capacity and also importing new products into the region. against this background, we expect ford south america to continue to generate solid profitability for 2012, although somewhat lower than 2011. we are continuing to work on actions to strengthen our competitiveness in the region's changing environment; these actions include fully leveraging our one ford plan, including the introduction of an all-new lineup of global products over the next two years starting in the second half of 2012. in europe, the external environment is uncertain, and likely to remain so for some time. given the challenges in europe, we will continue to review, take and accelerate actions to strengthen and improve our ford europe business. this will include fully leveraging our one ford plan and our global resources. we expect ford asia pacific africa to grow volume and be profitable for 2012, even as we continue to invest in additional capacity and in our product line-up for an even stronger future in line with our one ford plan. as indicated, we expect ford credit to be solidly profitable for full-year 2012 but at a lower level than 2011, primarily reflecting fewer leases being terminated and the related vehicles sold at a gain, and lower credit loss reserve reductions. of ford credit's $2.4 billion pre-tax profit for full-year 2011, the contribution related to these two factors was about $800 million favorable; these factors are expected to be minimal in 2012. ford credit also anticipates lower financing margin in 2012. as disclosed in "liquidity and capital resources" above, ford credit anticipates year-end 2012 managed receivables to be in the range of $85 billion to $95 billion. ford credit also is projecting distributions of between $500 million and $1 billion during 2012, subject to available liquidity and managed leverage objectives. overall, we expect 2012 to be a solid year, with improved automotive pre-tax operating profit, strong automotive operating-related cash flow, and solid ford credit profitability. we recognize that we have both challenges and opportunities ahead, and chief among our tasks is accelerating the realization of the full potential of the global scale and operating margin benefits inherent in our one ford plan. this task includes: working to improve even further our very strong north american operations; working to strengthen and grow our profitable south american operations in the face of increasing competition in the region; working to ensure that ford europe is on track to deliver sustainable and appropriate returns in an uncertain environment; working to achieve strong growth and profit contribution from ford asia pacific africa; and continuing the strong performance of our strategic asset ford credit. building on our strong performance in 2011, we will continue to leverage our one ford plan as we go further on our path to achieving our mid-decade outlook. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors; decline in market share or failure to achieve growth; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond our current planning assumption, particularly in the united states; an increase in fuel prices, continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; adverse effects on our operations resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events; economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, information technology issues, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors); single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure; substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change;" the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; a change in our requirements where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts); adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets; cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by us or a third-party vendor, or at a supplier facility; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and product recalls nature of estimates required. we accrue the estimated cost of basic warranty coverages for each vehicle at the time of sale. we establish estimates using historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. where little or no claims experience exists, we rely on historical averages. see note 30 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding costs for warranty actions. separately, we also accrue at the time of sale for potential product recalls based on historical experience with similar actions. product recalls are distinguishable from warranty coverages in that the actions may extend beyond basic warranty coverage periods. assumptions and approach used. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. pensions nature of estimates required. the estimation of our pension obligations, costs, and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience. these assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. expected return on plan assets. the expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. assumptions are not changed unless structural trends in the underlying economy are identified, our asset strategy changes, or there are significant changes in other inputs. salary growth. the salary growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. the expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. amounts are recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 12 years for the major u.s. plans). in 2011, the u.s. actual return on assets was 7.7%, which was lower than the expected return of 8%. the year-end 2011 weighted average discount rates for the u.s. and non-u.s. plans decreased by 60 and 47 basis points, respectively. these differences resulted in unamortized losses of about $5 billion. unamortized gains and losses are amortized only to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value of assets or the projected benefit obligation of the respective plan. for the major u.s. plans, unamortized losses exceed this threshold and recognition is continuing in 2012. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2011 pension funded status and 2012 expense are affected by year-end 2011 assumptions. these sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. they also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. the effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in factors which generally have the largest impact on pension expense and obligation is shown below (in millions): percentage increase/(decrease) in: point 2012 expense december 31, 2011 obligation assumption change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate +/- 1.0 pt. $(260)/$310 $(160)/$180 $(4,780)/$5,800 $(2,980)/$3,440 expected return on assets +/- 1.0 (380)/380 (190)/190 other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with opeb, primarily retiree health care and life insurance, requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. health care cost trends. our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. salary growth. salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual experience, our outlook, and assumed inflation. retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for u.s. plans at december 31, 2011 was 4.6%, compared with 5.2% at december 31, 2010, resulting in an unamortized loss of about $280 million. this amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 13 years). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding opeb costs and assumptions. 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. the effect on u.s. and canadian plans of a one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would be a (decrease)/increase in the postretirement health care benefit expense for 2012 of approximately $(40) million/$40 million, and in the year-end 2011 obligation of approximately $(730) million/$880 million. valuation of deferred tax assets nature of estimates required. deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences that exist between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards on a taxing jurisdiction basis. we measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which we expect the temporary differences to be recovered or paid. gaap for income taxes requires a reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) such assets will not be realized. the valuation of deferred tax assets requires judgment in assessing the likely future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns and future profitability. our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents our best estimate of those future events. changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events or otherwise, could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. assumptions and approach used. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets. if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we record a valuation allowance. the weight given to the positive and negative evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the evidence may be objectively verified. as such, it is generally difficult for positive evidence regarding projected future taxable income exclusive of reversing taxable temporary differences to outweigh objective negative evidence of recent financial reporting losses. gaap states that a cumulative loss in recent years is a significant piece of negative evidence that is difficult to overcome in determining that a valuation allowance is not needed against deferred tax assets. this assessment, which is completed on a taxing jurisdiction basis, takes into account a number of types of evidence, including the following: nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses. a pattern of objectively-measured recent financial reporting losses is heavily weighted as a source of negative evidence. we generally consider cumulative pre-tax losses in the three-year period ending with the current quarter to be significant negative evidence regarding future profitability. we also consider the strength and trend of earnings, as well as other relevant factors. in certain circumstances, historical information may not be as relevant due to changes in our business operations; sources of future taxable income. future reversals of existing temporary differences are heavily-weighted sources of objectively verifiable positive evidence. projections of future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences are a source of positive evidence only when the projections are combined with a history of recent profits and can be reasonably estimated. otherwise, these projections are considered inherently subjective and generally will not be sufficient to overcome negative evidence that includes relevant cumulative losses in recent years, particularly if the projected future taxable income is dependent on an anticipated turnaround to profitability that has not yet been achieved. in such cases, we generally give these projections of future taxable income no weight for the purposes of our valuation allowance assessment pursuant to gaap; and tax planning strategies. if necessary and available, tax planning strategies would be implemented to accelerate taxable amounts to utilize expiring carryforwards. these strategies would be a source of additional positive evidence and, depending on their nature, could be heavily weighted. see note 22 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding deferred tax assets. sensitivity analysis. in 2006, our net deferred tax position in the united states changed from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax asset position. in our assessment of the need for a valuation allowance, we heavily weighted the negative evidence of cumulative financial reporting losses in then-recent periods and the positive evidence of future reversals of existing temporary differences. although a sizable portion of our north american losses in then-recent years were the result of charges incurred for restructuring actions, impairments, and other special items, even without these charges we still would have incurred significant operating losses. accordingly, we considered our pattern of then-recent losses to be relevant to our analysis. considering this pattern of then-recent relevant losses and the uncertainties associated with projected future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences, we gave no weight to projections showing future u.s. taxable income for purposes of assessing the need for a valuation allowance. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result of our assessment, we concluded that the net deferred tax assets of our u.s. entities required a full valuation allowance. we also recorded a full valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of certain foreign entities, such as canada and spain, where realization of these assets also was uncertain. at december 31, 2010, our valuation allowance was $15.7 billion, leaving net deferred tax assets of about $900 million on our balance sheet. prior to year-end 2011, the pattern of objectively-measured negative evidence of recent financial reporting losses outweighed the positive evidence of our growing profitability, despite the tangible progress we were making in implementing our one ford plan. by the end of 2011, our u.s. operations had returned to a position of cumulative profits for the most recent three-year period. we concluded that this record of cumulative profitability in recent years, our ten consecutive quarters of pre-tax operating profits, our successful completion of labor negotiations with the uaw, and our business plan showing continued profitability, provided assurance that our future tax benefits more likely than not will be realized. accordingly, at year-end 2011, we released almost all of our valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets for entities in the united states, canada, and spain, resulting in a $12.4 billion benefit in our provision for income taxes. at december 31, 2011, we have retained a valuation allowance against approximately $500 million of deferred tax assets in north america related to various state and local operating loss carryforwards that are subject to restrictive rules for future utilization, and a valuation allowance totaling about $1 billion primarily against deferred tax assets for our south america operations. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses is ford credit's estimate of the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the balance sheet. consistent with its normal practices and policies, ford credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer segment. the retail installment and lease portfolio is evaluated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit's present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from models may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio, and an element of the allowance for credit losses is established for the imprecision inherent in loan loss models. reasons for imprecision include changes in economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit makes projections of two key assumptions: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes ford credit when ford credit charges off the finance contract and the amount ford credit receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. ford credit uses these assumptions to assist it in estimating its allowance for credit losses. see note 9 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln retail and lease portfolio (in millions): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage point change december 31, 2011 allowance for credit losses 2011 expense repossession rates (a) +/- 0.1 pt. $20/$(20) $20/$(20) loss severity +/- 1.0 5/(5) 5/(5) __________ (a) reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. non-consumer segment. the wholesale and dealer loan portfolio is evaluated by segmenting individual loans into risk pools, which are determined by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of collateral, and the financial status of the dealer). the risk pools are analyzed to determine if individual loans are impaired, and an allowance is estimated for the expected loss of these loans. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the provision for credit and insurance losses on our statement of operations and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet, in each case under the financial services sector. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. these vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for ford credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the automotive sector. we monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. for retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. ford credit's north america operating lease activity was as follows for each of the last three years (in thousands, except percentages): 2011 2010 2009 vehicle return volume 144 281 314 return rate 59% 69% 81% for rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles have been returned to us. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in our portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a customer. at the time we purchase a lease, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. we estimate the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, historical return volumes for our leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, our marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. for retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease-end. see note 8 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for our u.s. ford and lincoln retail and lease portfolio is as follows: increase/(decrease) assumption percentage change december 31, 2011 accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases 2012 expense future auction values +/- 1.0 $32/$(32) $12/$(12) return volumes +/- 1.0 3/(3) 1/(1) the impact of the increased accumulated supplemental depreciation in 2011 would be charged to expense in the 2012 - 2015 periods. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases are reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the statement of operations in depreciation , in each case under the financial services sector. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted for information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. "purchase obligations" are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2011 (in millions): payments due by period 2012 2013 - 2014 2015 - 2016 2017 and thereafter total automotive sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) $ 446 $ 1,401 $ 2,688 $ 8,198 $ 12,733 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 589 1,130 1,046 7,717 10,482 capital leases 10 12 7 4 33 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,765 1,455 726 1,106 5,052 operating leases 195 351 229 231 1,006 total automotive sector 3,005 4,349 4,696 17,256 29,306 financial services sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) 22,681 24,832 13,976 7,977 69,466 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 2,755 3,719 1,751 2,043 10,268 capital leases 1 2 1 4 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 19 12 11 11 53 operating leases 54 70 42 41 207 total financial services sector 25,510 28,635 15,781 10,072 79,998 intersector elimination (d) (201 ) (201 ) total company $ 28,314 $ 32,984 $ 20,477 $ 27,328 $ 109,103 __________ (a) amount includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $456 million for the automotive sector and $22,682 million for the financial services sector for the current portion of long-term debt. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion. (b) automotive sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(249) million. financial services sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(152) million and adjustments of $681 million related to designated fair value hedges of the debt. (c) excludes amortization of debt discounts/premiums. (d) intersector elimination related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for additional detail. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2011 of $1.8 billion (see note 22 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 8, 17 and 18, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 83 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ("grmc"). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. we maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7 our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through a combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). derivative positions, when available, are used to hedge underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and, in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 25 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 84 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2011 was a liability of $236 million compared to a liability of $35 million as of december 31, 2010. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would be about $1.7 billion at december 31, 2011 compared with a decrease of about $350 million as of december 31, 2010. the increase in potential market risk from the end of last year primarily results from an increase in the amount of foreign currencies hedged during 2011 as our hedging capacity has increased with improved operating performance. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). steel and resins are two of our largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). the net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2011 was a liability of $370 million (which reflects the cumulative mark to market net loss on our hedging contracts for full year 2011), compared to an asset of $63 million as of december 31, 2010. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be about $203 million at december 31, 2011, compared with a decrease of about $90 million at december 31, 2010. the increase in potential market risk from the end of last year primarily results from an increase in the amount of commodities hedged during 2011 as our hedging capacity has increased with improved operating performance. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2011, we had $22.9 billion in our automotive investment portfolios, compared to $20.5 billion at december 31, 2010. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the statement of operations. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $95 million. this compares to $81 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2010. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk. counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities. the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties and for longer-dated exposures. our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. 85 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. for additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to note 25 of the notes to the financial statements. ford credit market risk overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk - the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; credit risk - the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk - the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and liquidity risk - the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit's overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks. credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are discussed above in item 7. a discussion of ford credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. interest rate risk . ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that its assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured debt. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, ford credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of their assets, in most instances with up to ten year maturities. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance. ford credit uses re-pricing gap analysis and economic value sensitivity analysis to evaluate potential long term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps, when available, to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates, across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. 86 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates) (a) december 31, 2011 $ 60 $ (60 ) december 31, 2010 $ (22 ) $ 22 _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. as of december 31, 2011, in the aggregate ford credit's assets re-price faster than its debt combined with the derivative instruments hedging the debt. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates earned on ford credit's assets will increase more rapidly than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros and pound sterling. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables: as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure relating to changes in currency exchange rates is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments as of december 31, 2011 was an asset of about $1.1 billion, compared to an asset of $712 million as of december 31, 2010. for additional information regarding our financial services sector derivatives, see note 25 of the notes to the financial statements.risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on both ford and the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. u.s. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010 and growing to 13 million units in 2011 and 14.8 million units in 2012. for the 19 markets we track in europe, automotive industry sales volume declined from 18 million units in 2007 to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009, 15.3 million units in 2010 and 2011, and 14 million units in 2012, with further decline likely in 2013. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the "overview" section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in asia pacific africa, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly-developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. in addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact market acceptance, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, when gasoline prices in the united states spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles. we estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, as well as a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2013 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 26 million units in 2012. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see "overview" to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the middle east or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. in 2013, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ("euro area countries") and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or - in a more extreme circumstance - the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario - or the perception that such a development is imminent - could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 - 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and a new four-year agreement with the canadian auto workers union in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. for example, in october 2012 we announced our european transformation plan to address structural industry overcapacity. as announced, we intend to close three european manufacturing facilities, which would affect approximately 6,200 positions. our intent to close our assembly plant in genk, belgium is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, which we have commenced. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ("opeb") for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ("erisa"). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. at december 31, 2012, our u.s. and worldwide (including u.s.) defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $9.7 billion and $18.7 billion, respectively. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 16 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change." section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("tax attributes"). at december 31, 2012 we had tax attributes that would offset $14.7 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the "plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. we intend to seek shareholder approval of the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2013. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "governmental standards" discussion in "item 1. business" ("item 1") above. in addition to governmental regulations, a number of influential organizations conduct public domain testing. even as we continue to evolve our product line, aggressive changes in public domain testing requirements could have a negative influence on future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. 20 item 1a. risk factors (continued) a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and "item 3. legal proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. interruptions, outages, or breaches of operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, data processing, in-vehicle, or manufacturing processes), security systems, or infrastructure, as a result of cyber incidents, could materially disrupt critical operations, disclose confidential intellectual property, and/or give rise to allegations of or result in a breach of data privacy or other regulations within or outside the united states. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our credit agreement dated december 15, 2006, as amended and restated on november 24, 2009 and as further amended ("credit agreement"), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $9.6 billion until the facilities thereunder terminate, largely in 2015. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 21 item 1a. risk factors (continued) higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such institutions with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could substantially adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer financial protection act ("act") in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the new consumer financial protection bureau broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the federal deposit insurance corporation ("fdic") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the act, and, consequently, the effects of the act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for years. the act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on ford credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" ("item 7a") for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we currently have approximately 20,600 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe that these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage and additional service actions. we currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product, and the geographic location of its sale. in compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 31 of the notes to the financial statements. 4 item 1. business (continued) industry sales volume industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe. the following chart shows industry sales volume for the last five years for certain key markets in each region, and for the total we track within each of our ford north america, ford south america, ford europe, and ford asia pacific africa regions (in millions of units): industry sales volume (a) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 united states 14.8 13.0 11.8 10.6 13.5 canada 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.7 mexico 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 1.1 ford north america 17.5 15.5 14.2 12.9 16.3 brazil 3.8 3.6 3.5 3.1 2.8 argentina 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.6 ford south america (b) 5.6 5.4 5.0 4.2 4.3 britain 2.3 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.5 germany 3.4 3.5 3.2 4.0 3.4 ford europe (c) 14.0 15.3 15.3 15.9 16.6 turkey 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.5 russia 3.0 2.7 2.0 1.5 3.1 china 18.9 18.4 18.3 14.1 9.9 india 3.6 3.3 3.1 2.3 2.0 australia 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.0 south africa 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 asean (d) 3.4 2.6 2.4 1.9 2.0 ford asia pacific africa (e) 33.4 30.4 30.7 24.5 20.9 ______________ (a) throughout this report, industry sales volume and wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks. (b) ford south america industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the six markets we track in the region (i.e., argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela). (c) ford europe industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19 markets we track (i.e., austria, belgium, britain, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, spain, sweden, and switzerland); sales of ford-brand vehicles in turkey and russia by our unconsolidated affiliates ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ("ford otosan") and ford sollers netherlands b.v. ("fordsollers"), respectively, contribute to ford europe's wholesale unit volumes, but are not reflected in industry sales volume or market share for the region. (d) asean includes indonesia, malaysia, philippines, thailand, and vietnam. (e) ford asia pacific africa industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales for the 12 markets we track (i.e., australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand, and vietnam); market share data for 2008 to the present include ford and local-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates, including our chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ("jmc"). 5 item 1. business (continued) ford north america the following tables show our wholesales and market share by market in north america: wholesales (a) (in thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 united states 2,302 2,224 1,947 1,563 1,825 canada 281 273 278 223 198 mexico 83 88 88 80 134 ford north america (b) 2,784 2,686 2,413 1,927 2,329 ______________ (a) throughout this report, wholesale unit volumes include all ford-badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers and units distributed for other manufacturers, and jmc-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford-badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, and jmc-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate) are not included in our revenue. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes. (b) throughout this report, regional wholesale unit volumes include wholesales to various export markets. market share (a) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 united states 15.2 % 16.5 % 16.4 % 15.3 % 14.2 % canada 16.1 17.1 16.9 15.2 12.6 mexico 8.2 9.4 10.5 11.8 12.1 ______________ (a) throughout this report, market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market (as opposed to wholesale unit volumes reflecting sales directly by us to our customers, generally our dealers). united states. the competitive environment in the united states continues to intensify as foreign manufacturers continue to increase both imports to the united states and production capacity in north america. during 2012, japanese manufacturers fully recovered from the production disruptions caused by natural disasters the previous year, production capacity expanded, and post-recessionary new product cadence strengthened among most manufacturers. overall, we see a long-term industry trend toward smaller and more fuel-efficient vehicles; the small car segment has increased its share from 14% in 2004 to nearly 21% in 2012 - one of the most significant segment shifts in the industry. sales of small cars showed the strongest expansion of any vehicle segment in 2012, posting a 23% increase compared with overall industry expansion of just 13%. at the same time, our sales of small cars were up 29% in 2012, giving us just over 10% of the small car segment, more than a full percentage point increase compared to 2010, and our best share of the u.s. small car segment since 2003. mid-size cars were the fastest-growing segment of the u.s. industry following small cars. in 2012, this segment grew 21%, to represent just over 17% of u.s. industry - the segment's largest share in more than a decade. this growth can be attributed largely to the strong launch cadence of new products in the segment during 2012. since many of the all-new high-volume mid-size cars were launched in the second half of 2012 - including our 2013 fusion launched in september 2012 - this segment of industry should continue to benefit from last year's launch activity. small car-based utilities grew at a slightly slower rate during 2012, at 12%, with segment share of the u.s. industry flat compared with the prior year at about 13%. this segment likely will continue to grow in the years to come, as the number of "baby boomers" moving toward "empty nester" status continues to multiply. our escape small utility produced another record sales year in 2012, with more than 260,000 vehicles sold - its best sales since launch of the vehicle in 2000. in 2012, ford was the number-one selling brand of utility in america for the second straight year. although the full-size pickup segment has begun to grow, its share of total u.s. industry has remained flat over the last three years at approximately 11.5%. we will need to see a continued and sustainable recovery in the construction industry (including new housing starts) in order to see the full-size pickup segment increase significantly as a percentage of total industry sales. another factor that could positively influence full-size pickup truck sales in the years to come is the unusually high average age of the truck population, which is now at 10 years. within the full-size pickup truck segment, our f-series retains strong market leadership, marking its 36 th straight year as america's best-selling pickup and its 31 st straight year as america's best-selling vehicle. with a total of more than 645,000 pickups sold, f-series grabbed 39% share of the full-size pickup segment during 2012, its highest share since 2001. 6 item 1. business (continued) our strong u.s. vehicle sales in 2012 reflected our balanced portfolio of fuel-efficient vehicles, as our passenger cars, utilities, and trucks each reported gains last year. the data above include both retail and fleet sales. fleet sales include sales to commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments; in general, fleet sales tend to be less profitable than retail sales. in 2012, fleet sales were 30% of our total sales, compared with 32% in 2011; the majority was with commercial and government customers, which are more profitable than daily rentals. in 2012, our daily rental business was 12% of total sales, equal to a year ago and to industry average. as the leading manufacturer of commercial vehicles in the united states, commercial buyers are increasingly choosing ford cars and crossovers because of our improved resale values, and continue to favor ford trucks and vans. canada. industry sales volume in canada grew 6% in 2012. within that total, car sales increased by 1.7 percentage points to 45% of overall industry vehicle sales, while truck sales decreased to 55% of industry sales volume. our sales performance in the market earned ford canada the sales leadership title for the third year in a row. in 2012, ford canada earned segment leadership with mustang, escape, explorer, f-150, and super duty. f-series maintained truck leadership for the 47 th straight year, achieving record sales of more than 106,000 units. mexico. industry sales volume in mexico grew 9% during 2012. the sales performance of our fiesta and ikon in the b-car segment - which is the fastest growing segment in the industry - favorably impacted our market share, although the improvement was limited by production availability. the main contributors to share decline were discontinuation of courier, balance-out of the ecosport in advance of introduction of the new model, limited availability of the new escape, and suspension of the free trade agreement with argentina that affected import of ranger pickups. our plans for near-term market share growth include continuing to pursue volume opportunities in the core b- and c-car segments and small suvs by leveraging new product launches. ford south america as indicated, we track industry sales and market share for six markets in south america - argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela. ford south america's wholesales data are more inclusive, tracking ford-brand vehicles in nearly every market in the region. brazil and argentina are our highest-volume south american markets. in particular, brazil's economy and demographics, with growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates, and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002. these favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in brazil. the following tables show our wholesales and market share in the largest markets and in total: wholesales (in thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 brazil 336 346 358 336 297 argentina 107 105 85 66 77 ford south america 498 506 489 443 435 market share 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 brazil 9.1 % 9.5 % 10.4 % 10.3 % 10.0 % argentina 12.3 12.9 12.4 13.3 12.4 ford south america 9.0 9.3 9.8 10.2 9.7 the competition in brazil continues to intensify, as a number of automotive manufacturers bring online substantial capacity increases in the market. the intensifying competitive environment is putting pressure on industry net pricing; in the second half of 2012, we successfully initiated efforts to leverage our one ford plan by introducing global products (e.g., ecosport small utility and ranger pickup), with additional global products to come that will continue to benefit us in this market. the competitive environment, including new trade barriers and currency risks across the region, especially in venezuela, may limit our growth in certain countries. ford europe the automotive industry in europe is intensely competitive, and expected to intensify further as japanese and korean manufacturers increase production capacity in the region and manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., bmw, mercedes-benz and audi) continue to broaden product offerings. 7 item 1. business (continued) as indicated, our industry and market share measures focus on the following traditional 19 markets in europe: austria, belgium, britain, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, spain, sweden, and switzerland. ford europe's wholesales are more inclusive, tracking ford-brand vehicles in every market in the region, including wholesales in turkey and russia from our unconsolidated affiliates ford otosan and fordsollers. the nearly ten percent decline in industry sales volume for the 19 markets we track in europe in 2012 compared with 2011 largely reflected the impact of the continuing eurozone crisis and associated issues, and was heavily affected by the economic environment in italy and spain. wholesales (in thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ford europe 1,353 1,602 1,573 1,568 1,820 market share 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ford europe 7.9 % 8.3 % 8.4 % 9.1 % 8.6 % ford was again the second best-selling car brand in our traditional 19 markets in 2012 - a position we have maintained for the past five years. our continued market strength reflects the strong momentum of our new vehicles, including the b-max recently launched in october 2012. within the 19 markets we track, britain and germany are our highest-volume markets. any change in the british or german market has a significant effect on the results of ford europe. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for britain and germany (which are included within the traditional 19 markets data above): wholesales (in thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 britain 337 342 341 354 415 germany 208 250 216 286 250 market share 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 britain 14.9 % 15.0 % 15.0 % 16.8 % 16.4 % germany 6.8 7.4 6.9 7.6 7.0 britain. industry sales volume in britain began to decline in 2008 with the global financial crisis, and since 2009 has remained in the 2.2 million - 2.3 million unit range (compared with 2.8 million units in 2007). britain was the only market among our traditional 19 markets in europe that experienced an increase in industry sales volume in 2012, increasing 3.8% compared with the prior year. we had a slight decrease in our market share in 2012 compared with the prior year, with ford continuing as the market share leader in britain. unusually high market share in 2009 was driven by the launch of the popular ford ka and fiesta small cars, coincident with the implementation of a government vehicle scrappage program designed to stimulate vehicle sales. germany. with 3.4 million new vehicle registrations in 2012, germany's industry sales volume remained almost unchanged compared with the prior year. germany remains the largest vehicle market in the european union. our decrease in market share in 2012 compared with the prior year primarily reflected competitive market pressures, as well as our reduced participation in low-margin business such as daily rental and demonstration vehicles. turkey and russia. although not included in results for the 19 european markets discussed above, turkey and russia also contribute to our ford europe segment results. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for the last five years: wholesales (in thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 turkey 108 140 130 79 78 russia 134 124 93 74 183 8 item 1. business (continued) market share 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 turkey 13.8 % 15.8 % 15.8 % 15.1 % 14.7 % russia 4.3 4.3 4.6 5.5 6.1 turkey. industry growth slowed in 2008 as a result of the global financial crisis. beginning in 2009, industry vehicle sales accelerated due to government incentives put in place, with significant continuous increase in 2010 and 2011. in 2012, however, industry decreased by 10% compared with the prior year, largely driven by increased consumption and gasoline taxes. our wholesales were affected by this industry downturn, and we experienced a share drop compared with the prior year, although ford remains the leading automotive company for the 11 th consecutive year. russia. following a 50% contraction in 2009 as a result of the impact of the global financial crisis reaching russia, industry sales volume has returned almost to pre-crisis levels, with industry sales volume of 3 million units in 2012. russia is the second-largest market for vehicle sales in europe, and is expected to become the largest over the next several years. our sales grew by 8% in 2012, led by strong transit sales. as previously reported, our russian operations became part of the new fordsollers joint venture which began operations in october 2011. we expect this joint venture to contribute to our ability to continue to grow profitably in this rapidly expanding market. ford asia pacific africa ford asia pacific africa industry sales and market share data focus on our 12 major markets in the region; wholesales are more inclusive, tracking every market in the region. of the markets we track in this region, asean, australia, china, india, and south africa are our principal markets. small cars account for 60% of asia pacific africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government policy. we anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars. the highly successful launch of our all-new focus small car once again demonstrates our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments in the region. we anticipate further success with the introduction of the all-new ecosport small utility in 2013. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for key markets and in total for the last five years: wholesales (in thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 china 627 519 483 345 251 india 87 96 84 30 29 australia 94 83 104 92 102 south africa 49 49 45 38 51 asean 95 74 51 38 36 ford asia pacific africa 1,033 901 838 604 532 market share 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 china 3.2 % 2.7 % 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.6 % india 2.4 2.9 2.6 1.3 1.4 australia 8.1 9.0 9.2 10.3 10.3 south africa 7.8 8.4 7.7 7.6 6.9 asean 2.6 2.7 1.5 1.6 1.5 ford asia pacific africa 2.8 2.7 2.4 2.3 2.3 china and india are burgeoning markets that are expected to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in the next ten years, driving new economic growth in the asia pacific africa region. accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region. we and our unconsolidated joint venture affiliates completed construction of two new plants in the region in the last year, announced significant expansions of existing facilities, and currently are building seven additional plants in the region - five in china and two in india - all as part of our plan to reach production capacity of 2.7 million vehicles by mid-decade. these new state-of-the-art highly-flexible manufacturing facilities will help us reach the goal of increasing worldwide sales to about 8 million vehicles per year by mid-decade. 9 item 1. business (continued) financial services sector ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford motor credit company llc ("ford credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from: payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries on special-rate financing programs; and payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two segments "consumer" and "non-consumer." finance receivables and leases in the consumer segment relate to products offered to individuals and to businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. the financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer segment relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership facilities, for working capital, and for purchase of dealership real estate. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily in connection with the sale of parts and accessories. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through regional business centers. outside of the united states, fce bank plc ("fce") is ford credit's largest operation; europe is fce's largest market. within europe, fce's largest markets are germany and the united kingdom. about 70% of fce's finance and lease receivables are from fce's customers and ford dealers in germany, the united kingdom, and france; about 15% are from fce's customers and ford dealers in italy and spain; and about 1% are from fce's customers and ford dealers in greece, ireland, and portugal. fce, through its worldwide trade financing division, also provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. ford credit's share of retail financing for new ford and lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the united states and new ford vehicles sold by dealers in europe, as well as its share of wholesale financing for new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe were: united states years ended december 31, financing share ford and lincoln 2012 2011 2010 retail installment and lease 38 % 36 % 32 % wholesale 78 80 81 europe financing share ford retail installment and lease 32 % 29 % 26 % wholesale 98 99 99 see item 7 and notes 7, 8, and 9 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. in november 2008, we entered into an amended and restated support agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if its managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. in addition, ford credit has an agreement to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 10 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: mobile source emissions control u.s. requirements - federal emissions standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. the current ("tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") set standards for cars and light trucks. tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). in 2013, epa is expected to propose new "tier 3" regulations, setting more stringent motor vehicle emissions standards for future model years. epa also has stringent emissions standards and requirements for epa-defined "heavy duty" vehicles and engines (generally, those vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds to 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight). in order to meet the standards for heavy duty diesel trucks, ford and most other manufacturers use selective catalytic reduction ("scr") systems, which require periodic customer maintenance. epa has issued guidance calling for increasingly stringent warning systems to alert motorists to the need for maintenance of scr systems. development of the necessary warning systems is a challenging process, and obtaining certification of scr-equipped diesel trucks by epa and the california air resources board ("carb") is particularly challenging. in 2011, epa issued waivers under the clean air act allowing the distribution and sale of gasoline containing 15% ethanol ("e15" fuel) for use in 2001 model year and later gasoline-powered vehicles. virtually all of the vehicles affected by the waivers were designed to accommodate gasoline containing a maximum ethanol content of 10%. there are concerns that extensive use of e15 in these past model-year vehicles may lead to fuel system problems and other issues. various petitioners, including the automotive industry, sought judicial review of the epa waivers; the district of columbia circuit court of appeals has denied relief, and petitioners may seek review by the u.s. supreme court. if epa's waivers are allowed to stand, ford and other automotive manufacturers may face increased warranty claims and customer complaints, as well as the possibility of consumer litigation, due to the introduction of e15 into the market. u.s. requirements - california and other state emissions standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california may seek a waiver from epa to establish unique vehicle emissions control standards; each new or modified proposal requires a new waiver of preemption from epa. california has received a waiver from epa to establish its own unique emissions control standards for certain regulated pollutants. new vehicles and engines sold in california must be certified by carb; carb's current low-emission vehicle ("lev ii") emissions standards treat most light duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet stringent new emissions requirements. like epa's tier 2 emissions standards, carb's lev ii emissions standards present a difficult engineering challenge. the california program includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ("zevs") that emit no regulated pollutants. the current zev regulations allow certain advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions, to qualify for zev credits. the rules also give some zev credits for so-called "partial zero-emission vehicles" ("pzevs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. the current rules require increasing volumes of battery-electric and other advanced technology vehicles with each passing model year. we plan to comply with the zev regulations through the sale of a variety of battery-electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and pzevs. our compliance plan entails significant costs, and has a variety of inherent risks, including potential component shortages that may make it difficult to produce vehicles in sufficient quantities. the clean air act also permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt california's motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year. in addition to california, thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards for current and/or future model years (and ten of these states also have adopted the zev requirements). these states, together with california, account for more than 30% of our current u.s. light duty vehicle sales volume. it is possible that additional states may adopt the california standards in the future. the adoption of california standards by other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including: 1) managing fleet average emissions standards and zev mandate 11 item 1. business (continued) requirements on a state-by-state basis, which presents difficulties from the standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some vehicles required by the zev program varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) states adopting the california program have not adopted california's clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles in other states to meet california's in-use standards. in 2012, carb finalized revisions to its lev and zev regulations. the new "lev iii" program begins to take effect with the 2015 model year and includes more stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards for light and medium duty vehicles; extended durability requirements; and changes to the certification test procedures, requiring manufacturers to certify vehicles on fuel containing 10% ethanol. the amended zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles for the 2018 - 2025 model years. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. the lev iii regulations will require automobile manufacturers to design and develop new emissions after-treatment systems, which presents an engineering challenge. the 2018 - 2025 model year zev rules pose an even greater obstacle that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. compliance with the zev mandate involves intensive planning efforts and large capital investments in order to deliver the required number of advanced-technology vehicles. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, particularly in the 2018 - 2025 model years. we also are concerned about potential enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. carb conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming zev requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance. ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that zev requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome. european requirements. european union ("eu") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new "stage v" emissions standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in january 2011; stage vi requirements will apply from september 2014, with a second phase beginning in september 2017. stage v particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and stage vi further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen. this will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. these technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles. the additional requirements for the second phase of stage vi will further increase stringency of particle emissions for direct injection gasoline vehicles, and apply more demanding on-board diagnostic thresholds for all vehicles. there are some additional test procedures still in development for application as part of the second phase of stage vi. vehicles equipped with scr systems require a driver inducement and warning system for maintenance or repair. the stage v/vi emission legislation also mandated internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related), and provision of information to diagnostic tool manufacturers. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ("un-ece") mobile source emissions regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china plans to adopt the most recent european standards, to be implemented starting from 2013 in large cities. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. although these countries have adopted regulations based un-ece or u.s. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets. furthermore, not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. japan has unique standards and test procedures, which may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the japanese market. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. tier 2 requirements discussed above; a new examination of mobile source emissions has commenced, and it is expected that any new regulation will align standards with the current u.s. regulations. in south america, brazil, argentina, and chile have introduced more stringent emissions standards. brazil approved european stage v emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; more stringent light vehicle limits come into effect starting in 2012. argentina also will apply stage v standards beginning in 2014 (for new vehicle homologations) and 2016 (for new vehicle registrations). chile approved a plan to introduce more stringent 12 item 1. business (continued) emission standards (i.e., european stage iv and v or corresponding u.s. emissions standards) nationwide for light and medium duty vehicles, and progressive alignment with the metropolitan region (i.e., the capital city santiago and surrounding area) by september 2014. heavy duty vehicles will be required to meet stage v (or corresponding u.s. emissions standards) by october 2014. motor vehicle fuel economy in addition to our own push for class-leading fuel efficiency for our vehicle line, we also face ever-increasing expectations from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of reasons including energy security and reduced ghg emissions. our ability to comply with a given set of fuel economy standards (including ghg emissions standards, which are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards) depends on a variety of factors, including: 1) prevailing economic conditions, including fluctuations in fuel prices; 2) alignment of standards with actual consumer demand for vehicles; and 3) adequate lead time to make necessary product changes. consumer demand for vehicles tends to fluctuate based on a variety of external factors. consumers are more likely to pay for vehicles with fuel-efficient technologies (such as hybrid-electric vehicles) when the economy is robust, and when fuel prices are relatively high. when the economy is in recession and/or fuel prices are relatively low, many consumers may put off new vehicle purchases altogether, and among those who do purchase vehicles, demand for higher-cost fuel technologies is not likely to be strong. if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large and/or high-performance, while regulatory standards require production of vehicles that are smaller and more economical, the mismatch of supply and demand would have an adverse effect on both regulatory compliance and our profitability. moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average ghg emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the necessary technology can be developed). u.s. requirements - light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ("cafe") standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ("nhtsa"). a manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively. california also has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and a 2007 u.s. supreme court decision paved the way for epa to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions under the clean air act. the potential for three sets of overlapping and conflicting regulations led to the establishment of the federal "one national program," pursuant to which epa and nhtsa have promulgated regulations establishing a harmonized national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012 - 2016 model years. the 2012 - 2016 federal ghg and fuel economy standards are very challenging. they require new light duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 miles per gallon ("mpg") by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the cafe program. carb has amended its regulations to provide that manufacturers who comply with one national program regulations will be deemed to comply with california ghg regulations. we believe that we will be able to comply with the harmonized federal cafe/ghg standards for the 2012 - 2016 model years, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy that we built into our cycle plan, and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms. in contrast, we had projected that we would be unable to comply with the state ghg standards that had been in place for the 2012 - 2016 period without undertaking costly product restrictions in some states. key differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program include: 1) one national program standards, although very stringent, do not ramp up as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and 2) one national program allows us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales. the ability to average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a critical element for us and for the automotive industry. the 2012-2016 model year one national program rules currently are being challenged in federal court by entities concerned about the ramifications of these rules on stationary source regulation. the automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of preventing adverse changes to the existing one national program. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. the new rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and approximately 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year, assuming all of the co 2 emissions reductions are achieved through the deployment of fuel economy technology. this represents a reduction of roughly 5% per year in co 2 emissions from passenger cars for the 2017 - 2025 model years. 13 item 1. business (continued) for light trucks, the proposed standards represent a reduction in co 2 emissions of about 3.5% per year for model years 2017 - 2021, and about 5% per year for model years 2022 - 2025. it is important to note that epa's 2022 - 2025 ghg standards are final rules; in contrast, nhtsa's 2022 - 2025 cafe standards are conditional because, by statute, nhtsa may only set cafe standards for up to five model years at a time. each manufacturer's specific task would depend on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, epa will re-evaluate its standards for model years 2022 - 2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. in parallel, nhtsa will undertake a process to promulgate final cafe standards for those model years. carb has modified its ghg regulations to provide that compliance with the federal program satisfies compliance with california's requirements for the 2017 - 2025 model years. as with the 2012 - 2016 rules, the 2017 - 2025 rules have been challenged in federal court by entities whose primary concern appears to be the ramifications of the vehicle rules on stationary source regulation. the automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of avoiding adverse changes to the one national program rules. while the new rules are challenging, we believe they are feasible in light of our product plans and projected market conditions for the time period covered by our product planning process. we also believe the new rules are preferable to engaging in protracted disputes with california and other states that use the california standards over the right to enforce state-specific ghg standards. ford's ability to comply with the 2022 - 2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future. we intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards. if the agencies seek to impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or ghg standards in spite of unfavorable market conditions or inadequate technology development, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. u.s. requirements - heavy duty vehicles. in 2011, epa and nhtsa promulgated final regulations imposing, for the first time, ghg and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating). in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. these standards will be challenging, but we believe we will be able to comply. epa and nhtsa are expected to issue a new round of standards for these vehicles covering the 2019 model year and beyond; as the standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. the 2014 - 2018 heavy duty ghg rules are being challenged in federal court by entities other than truck and engine manufacturers. remand or rejection by the court could have a substantial adverse impact on our future production and sale of heavy duty vehicles, depending on the court's specific order and agencies' response. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ("g/km"), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. a penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from 5 to 95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 - 2018, and 95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden. further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. for 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. this target will be further detailed in a review in 2013. other non-eu european countries are likely to follow with similar regulations. for example, switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in july 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance. in separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" have been mandated (for example, tire-related and gearshift indicator requirements), and more mandates are expected. these include requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission, council and parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 14 item 1. business (continued) 2014 - 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020; it is likely that other european countries, like switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions. this regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for so-called "multi-stage vehicles" (e.g., our transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, "super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. to limit ghg emissions, the eu directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower "global warming potential" refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in january 2017. a refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole value chain. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. the standards track the new u.s. cafe standards for the 2011 model year and u.s. epa ghg regulations for the 2012 - 2016 model years. the canadian federal government now has published a draft regulation which maintains alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 - 2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014 - 2018 heavy duty vehicles is expected in february 2013. in december 2009, quebec also enacted province-specific regulations setting fleet average ghg standards for the 2010 - 2016 model years effective january 2010. now that the canadian federal regulation is in place, the quebec government has amended the quebec regulation to recognize equivalency with the federal standards; reporting of quebec fleet performance still is required. mexico also is in the process of adopting fuel economy/co 2 standards based on the u.s. one national program framework, to take effect in 2014. many asia pacific countries (such as australia, china, japan, india, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam) are also developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 and is preparing to promulgate more stringent 2020 targets, with incentives for early adoption. china has been developing stage iii and stage iv fuel economy targets for implementation for 2012 - 2015 and 2016 - 2020, respectively. all of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine. while the program is voluntary, brazil also published a new automotive regime which requires participation in the fuel economy labeling program and a minimum 12% improvement in industry-wide fuel efficiency for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction for customers. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved. chile introduced requirements for fuel consumption and co 2 emissions levels of light duty vehicles to be posted at sales locations and in owner manuals beginning in february 2013. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. motor vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the "safety act") regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced un-ece regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. these technologies have been implemented in europe with final regulation 15 item 1. business (continued) and implementing measures having become available in late 2011. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new recall requirements in asia pacific africa also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. pollution control costs during the period 2013 through 2017, we expect to spend about $125 million on our facilities in the americas and europe to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period. of this total, we currently estimate we will spend between $25 million and $30 million in each of 2013 and 2014. specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult. employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in thousands): 2012 2011 automotive ford north america 80 75 ford south america 17 16 ford europe 46 47 ford asia pacific africa 22 19 financial services ford credit 6 7 total 171 164 the year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects increases in north america and asia pacific africa to support increased production, partially offset by the initiation of personnel-reduction programs in europe. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ("uaw" or "united auto workers"). approximately two percent of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2011, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the uaw. the agreement covers approximately 41,000 employees, and maintains our progress on improving competitiveness in the united states. excluding profit-sharing, compensation-related terms - including lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure - are expected to increase u.s. hourly labor costs by less than 1% annually over the four-year contract period. we also expect this increase will be more than offset by more flexible work rules that will allow us to increase manufacturing utilization and efficiency. in 2012, we negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, australia, brazil, britain, canada, france, germany, mexico, romania, taiwan, and turkey. in 2013, we will negotiate full agreements with labor unions in brazil, italy, mexico, new zealand, thailand, south africa, and venezuela. in addition, wage-only discussions will happen in numerous other locations across all regions. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. engineering, research, and development expenses for 2012, 2011, and 2010 were $5.5 billion, $5.3 billion, and $5 billion, respectively. 16 item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on both ford and the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. u.s. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010 and growing to 13 million units in 2011 and 14.8 million units in 2012. for the 19 markets we track in europe, automotive industry sales volume declined from 18 million units in 2007 to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009, 15.3 million units in 2010 and 2011, and 14 million units in 2012, with further decline likely in 2013. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the "overview" section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in asia pacific africa, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly-developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. in addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact market acceptance, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, when gasoline prices in the united states spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles. we estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, as well as a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2013 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 26 million units in 2012. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see "overview" to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the middle east or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. in 2013, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ("euro area countries") and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or - in a more extreme circumstance - the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario - or the perception that such a development is imminent - could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 - 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and a new four-year agreement with the canadian auto workers union in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. for example, in october 2012 we announced our european transformation plan to address structural industry overcapacity. as announced, we intend to close three european manufacturing facilities, which would affect approximately 6,200 positions. our intent to close our assembly plant in genk, belgium is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, which we have commenced. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ("opeb") for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ("erisa"). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. at december 31, 2012, our u.s. and worldwide (including u.s.) defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $9.7 billion and $18.7 billion, respectively. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 16 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change." section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("tax attributes"). at december 31, 2012 we had tax attributes that would offset $14.7 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the "plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. we intend to seek shareholder approval of the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2013. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "governmental standards" discussion in "item 1. business" ("item 1") above. in addition to governmental regulations, a number of influential organizations conduct public domain testing. even as we continue to evolve our product line, aggressive changes in public domain testing requirements could have a negative influence on future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. 20 item 1a. risk factors (continued) a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and "item 3. legal proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. interruptions, outages, or breaches of operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, data processing, in-vehicle, or manufacturing processes), security systems, or infrastructure, as a result of cyber incidents, could materially disrupt critical operations, disclose confidential intellectual property, and/or give rise to allegations of or result in a breach of data privacy or other regulations within or outside the united states. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our credit agreement dated december 15, 2006, as amended and restated on november 24, 2009 and as further amended ("credit agreement"), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $9.6 billion until the facilities thereunder terminate, largely in 2015. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 21 item 1a. risk factors (continued) higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such institutions with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could substantially adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer financial protection act ("act") in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the new consumer financial protection bureau broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the federal deposit insurance corporation ("fdic") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the act, and, consequently, the effects of the act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for years. the act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on ford credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 22 item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 54% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 99% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. as in the united states, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering, research, and development sites, and sales offices used by our automotive segments as of december 31, 2012 are shown in the table below: segment plants distribution centers/ warehouses engineering, research/ development sales offices ford north america 32 (a) 30 46 60 ford south america 8 3 1 8 ford europe 15 (b) 6 4 26 ford asia pacific africa 12 (c) 1 7 19 total 67 40 58 113 ____________ (a) the year-over-year change in the number of ford north america plants reflects the closing of one u.s. engine plant, as well as the sale, lease, or other disposition of three facilities operated by automotive components holdings, llc ("ach"), partially offset by consolidation of the aai facility now known as flat rock assembly plant. the table continues to reflect one ach plant (where we are transferring the primary business to a supplier over a period scheduled to end in the fourth quarter of 2014, at which point we plan to close the facility upon completion of transfer of the business). (b) included in this count are three ford europe plants that we have announced we intend to close, one of which is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives. see item 7 for additional discussion of our european transformation plan. also included in this table is ford romania s.a. ("ford romania"), which came under our full operational control as of january 1, 2013 upon cessation of the government's control and participation. ford romania produces engines and ford b-max for distribution across europe. (c) during 2012, ford asia pacific africa closed one plant in the philippines, and opened a new wholly-owned plant in rayong, thailand. included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our automotive sector. as of december 31, 2012, the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns is as follows: aai a 50/50 joint venture with mazda that operates an automobile assembly plant in flat rock, michigan. as of september 1, 2012, we acquired full management control of aai; in exchange, beginning on september 1, 2015 for a three-year period, we have granted mazda a put option to sell, and received a call option to purchase from mazda, the 50% equity interest in aai that is held by mazda ("option"). the option is exercisable at a price to be determined by a formula based on aai's final december 31, 2012 closing balance sheet. aai currently produces the ford mustang, and production of the ford fusion is scheduled to begin in 2013. we supply all of the hourly and salaried personnel requirements to aai, and aai reimburses us for the cost. ford lio ho motor company ltd. ("flh") a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports ford-brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific africa region, europe, and the united states. this joint venture operates one plant. 23 item 2. properties (continued) ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation ("veam"), a company owned by the vietnamese ministry of industry and trade (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. this joint venture operates one plant. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of these joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ("aat") a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales, the latter in both built-up and kit form, with export of certain products to markets outside the asia pacific africa region. the recently expanded rayong production facility produces a number of vehicles, including ford everest suv, and ford ranger and mazda bt-50 pickup trucks, as well as ford fiesta, mazda2, and mazda3 small cars. blue diamond parts, llc ("blue diamond parts") a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar international corporation (formerly known as international truck and engine corporation) ("navistar") (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond parts manages sourcing, merchandising, and distribution of certain service parts for trucks sold in north america. we will continue to collaborate on this joint venture. blue diamond truck, s. de r.l. de c.v. ("blue diamond truck") a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond truck develops and manufactures selected medium duty commercial trucks in mexico and sells the vehicles to ford and navistar for distribution. we have given notice that we are terminating the blue diamond truck joint venture effective december 2014, and will in-source production of f-650/750 trucks to our ohio assembly plant. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ("caf") a 50/50 joint venture between ford and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ("changan"). caf, formerly known as changan ford mazda automobile corporation, ltd., was restructured as of november 30, 2012 into two independent companies caf, and changan mazda automobile corporation, ltd. ("cam"), a 50/50 joint venture between mazda and changan. caf retained the facilities in the chinese city of chongqing, where it produces and distributes in china an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models, as well as volvo models. the facility in nanjing was transferred to cam. caf currently has under construction two vehicle assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant to support further growth in the region. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ("cfme") a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces the ford new i4, ford sigma, and mazda bz engines in support of ford- and mazda-brand vehicles manufactured in china. ford otosan a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier to ford of the transit connect series and transit connect commercial vehicles and is our sole distributor of ford-brand vehicles in turkey. in addition, ford otosan recently signed an agreement with ford for the development and supply of a new commercial vehicle, the transit courier. ford otosan also makes the the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license from ford. this joint venture owns two plants, a parts distribution depot, and a product development center in turkey. fordsollers a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc ("sollers"), to which we contributed our operations in russia, consisting primarily of a manufacturing plant and access to our russian dealership network. sollers contributed two production facilities and supports the joint venture through its manufacturing capabilities, knowledge of the russian market, experience in distribution, and work with the russian supply base. in addition, the joint venture has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford-brand vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia. the joint venture has been approved to participate in russia's new industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia. 24 item 2. properties (continued) getrag ford transmissions gmbh ("getrag ford") a 50/50 joint venture with getrag international gmbh, a german company, to which we transferred our european manual transmission operations, including plants, from halewood, england; cologne, germany; and bordeaux, france. in 2008, we added the kechnec plant in slovakia. getrag ford operates these four plants, producing, among other things, manual transmissions for ford europe and volvo. we supply most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this joint venture; in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, our employees assigned to getrag ford may return to ford. getrag ford reimburses us for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor we supply. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (30% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 29% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles the ford transit van, ford diesel engines, and non-ford vehicles for distribution in china and in other export markets. tenedora nemak, s.a. de c.v. a joint venture between ford (6.75% partner) and a subsidiary of mexican conglomerate alfa s.a. de c.v. (93.25% partner), which supplies aluminum castings from plants located in each region in which we do business. the facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. the furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 31 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicle lines of various model years. in many, no dollar amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. any damages we pay in a negotiated settlement or as the result of a verdict generally have been, on average, substantially less than the amounts originally claimed. based on our knowledge of the facts and circumstances asserted, our historical experience with matters of a similar nature, and our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing and the severity of any potential loss, we establish litigation accruals. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of 25 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. at this time, we have no individual environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000 to report. class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past ever have been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list below those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. medium/heavy truck sales procedure class action. this action pending in the ohio state court system alleges that ford breached its sales and service agreement with ford truck dealers by failing to publish to all ford dealers all price concessions that were approved for any dealer. the trial court certified a nationwide class consisting of all ford dealers who purchased from ford any 600-series or higher truck from 1987 to 1997, and granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on liability. during 2011, a jury awarded $4.5 million in damages to the named plaintiff dealer and the trial court applied the jury's findings with regard to the named plaintiff to all dealers in the class, entering a judgment of approximately $2 billion in damages. we appealed, and on may 3, 2012, the ohio court of appeals reversed the trial court's grant of summary judgment to plaintiffs, vacated the damages award, and remanded the matter for a new trial. other matters apartheid litigation. along with two other prominent multinational companies, we are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits seeking unspecified damages on behalf of south african citizens who suffered violence and oppression under south africa's apartheid regime. the lawsuits allege that the defendant companies aided and abetted the apartheid regime and its human rights violations. these cases, collectively referred to as in re south african apartheid litigation , were initially filed in 2002 and 2003, and are being handled together as coordinated "multidistrict litigation" in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. the district court dismissed these cases in 2004, but in 2007 the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit reversed and remanded the cases to the district court for further proceedings. amended complaints were filed during 2008; motions to dismiss have been granted in part and denied in part, and defendants' appeal to the u.s. court of appeals is pending. brazilian state tax matters. three brazilian states have levied tax assessments against ford brazil claiming that certain state tax incentives from the state of bahia did not receive formal approval from the organization of brazilian state treasury offices. we have appealed the assessments to the administrative level in each state. if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state judicial court, which likely would require us to post significant cash or other collateral in order to proceed. our appeals remain at the administrative level in two states, but in one state our administrative appeal has been denied. we have initiated judicial court proceedings in that state and collateral likely will be required in the first quarter of 2013. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 26 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2013: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board sept. 2006 55 alan mulally (b) president and chief executive officer sept. 2006 67 mark fields chief operating officer dec. 2012 52 james d. farley, jr. executive vice president global marketing, sales and service and lincoln dec. 2012 50 john fleming executive vice president global manufacturing and labor affairs dec. 2009 62 joseph r. hinrichs executive vice president president, the americas dec. 2012 46 stephen t. odell executive vice president president, europe, middle east and africa dec. 2012 57 bob shanks executive vice president and chief financial officer apr. 2012 60 tony brown group vice president purchasing apr. 2008 56 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services apr. 2008 47 bennie fowler group vice president quality apr. 2008 56 david g. leitch group vice president and general counsel apr. 2005 52 j c. mays group vice president and chief creative officer aug. 2003 58 raj nair group vice president global product development apr. 2012 48 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations jan. 2004 45 dave schoch group vice president president, asia pacific dec. 2012 61 bernard silverstone group vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. jan. 2013 57 nick smither group vice president chief information officer apr. 2008 54 stuart rowley vice president and controller apr. 2012 45 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 27 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states, and on certain stock exchanges in belgium and france. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock, and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2011 and 2012: 2011 2012 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 18.97 $ 16.18 $ 14.22 $ 12.65 $ 13.05 $ 12.95 $ 10.66 $ 13.08 low 13.75 12.65 9.32 9.05 10.99 9.46 8.82 9.71 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock $ $ $ $ $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. as of february 1, 2013, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 151,240 holders of common stock and 66 holders of class b stock. as previously reported, we conducted a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program during 2012, which authorized repurchases of our common stock in an appropriate amount up to the lower of $150 million or 11.7 million shares to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation. during the fourth quarter, we repurchased shares of ford common stock as follows: period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly- announced plans or programs maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs october 1, 2012 through october 31, 2012 640,000 $ 9.92 640,000 3.2 million november 1, 2012 through november 30, 2012 2,569,133 11.02 2,569,133 2.6 million december 1, 2012 through december 31, 2012 total/average 3,209,133 $ 10.80 3,209,133 __________ (a) in any given month, the difference between the total number of shares purchased and the number of shares purchased as part of the publicly-announced plan reflects shares that were acquired from our employees or directors related to certain exercises of stock options in accordance with our various compensation plans. as shown above, our anti-dilutive share repurchase program concluded in the fourth quarter of 2012. in total, pursuant to this program we repurchased 11.7 million shares of ford common stock at a cost of $125 million. for discussion of our outstanding convertible notes, convertible and exercisable into our common stock, see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 28 item 6. selected financial data. on january 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard regarding consolidation of variable interest entities ("vies"). we have applied the standard retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and present prior-year financial statement data on a basis that is revised for the application of this standard. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 total company revenues $ 134,252 $ 136,264 $ 128,954 $ 116,283 $ 143,584 income/(loss) before income taxes $ 7,720 $ 8,681 $ 7,149 $ 2,599 $ (14,895 ) provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 2,056 (11,541 ) 592 (113 ) (62 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 5,664 20,222 6,557 2,712 (14,833 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 5 9 net income/(loss) 5,664 20,222 6,557 2,717 (14,824 ) less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) 9 (4 ) (58 ) net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 5,665 $ 20,213 $ 6,561 $ 2,717 $ (14,766 ) automotive sector revenues $ 126,567 $ 128,168 $ 119,280 $ 103,868 $ 127,635 income/(loss) before income taxes 6,010 6,250 4,146 785 (12,314 ) financial services sector revenues $ 7,685 $ 8,096 $ 9,674 $ 12,415 $ 15,949 income/(loss) before income taxes 1,710 2,431 3,003 1,814 (2,581 ) amounts per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock basic income/(loss) $ 1.48 $ 5.33 $ 1.90 $ 0.91 $ (6.50 ) diluted income/(loss) $ 1.42 $ 4.94 $ 1.66 $ 0.86 $ (6.50 ) cash dividends declared $ 0.15 $ 0.05 $ $ $ common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high $ 13.08 $ 18.97 $ 17.42 $ 10.37 $ 8.79 low 8.82 9.05 9.75 1.50 1.01 average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,815 3,793 3,449 2,992 2,273 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 86,458 $ 78,786 $ 64,606 $ 79,118 $ 71,556 financial services sector 106,160 101,574 103,270 119,112 151,667 intersector elimination (252 ) (1,112 ) (2,083 ) (3,224 ) (2,535 ) total assets $ 192,366 $ 179,248 $ 165,793 $ 195,006 $ 220,688 debt automotive sector $ 14,256 $ 13,094 $ 19,077 $ 33,610 $ 23,319 financial services sector 90,802 86,595 85,112 98,671 128,842 intersector elimination (a) (201 ) (201 ) (646 ) (492 ) total debt $ 105,058 $ 99,488 $ 103,988 $ 131,635 $ 151,669 total equity/(deficit) $ 15,989 $ 15,071 $ (642 ) $ (7,782 ) $ (15,371 ) __________ (a) debt related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities. 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview revenue our automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories; we generally treat sales and marketing incentives as a reduction to revenue. revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. when we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. in addition, revenue for finished vehicles we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of the related contracts as an element of financing revenue. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: material excluding commodity costs - primarily reflecting the change in cost of purchased parts used in the assembly of our vehicles. commodity costs - reflecting the change in cost for raw materials (such as steel, aluminum, and resins) used in the manufacture of our products. structural costs - reflecting the change in costs that generally do not have a directly proportionate relationship to our production volumes, such as labor costs, including pension and health care; other costs related to the development and manufacture of our vehicles; depreciation and amortization; and advertising and sales promotion costs. warranty and other costs - reflecting the change in cost related to warranty coverage, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions, as well as the change in freight and other costs related to the distribution of our vehicles and support for the sale and distribution of parts and accessories. while material (including commodity), freight, and warranty costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2012 was $121.6 billion. material costs (including commodity costs) make up the largest portion of our automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2012 about two-thirds of the total amount. of the remaining balance of our automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry global economic conditions. during 2011, global economic growth slowed to about 2.5% from 4% in 2010, as the worsening debt crisis in europe, regime changes in north africa, natural disasters in japan and thailand, and moderating economic growth in several key newly-developed and emerging markets all contributed to slow growth. global growth in 2012 remained at the relatively low level of about 2.5% due to the european debt crisis, slowing of chinese economic growth, and moderate pace of recovery in the united states. during 2013, global economic growth is expected to remain in the 2% - 3% range. the european debt crisis remains a key risk to economic growth. the current economic performance in many european countries, particularly greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain, is being hampered by excessive government debt levels and the resulting budget austerity measures that are contributing to weak economic growth. the eu, the european central bank, and the international monetary fund have provided important support for many of these countries undergoing structural changes. during 2013, economic growth is likely to remain weak in these markets, even though financial markets have begun to stabilize. the u.k. government has implemented budget cuts and tax increases that will depress growth, although the labor market has stabilized in recent months. uncertainties associated with the european debt crisis, and policy responses to it, could impact global economic performance in 2013. although housing is stabilizing in some of the worst hit markets, such as the united states, the prospect of a strong economic rebound is hampered by fiscal tightening. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) global industry vehicle sales volume (including medium and heavy truck) is estimated to have increased to 81 million units in 2012, up more than 4 million units - or about 5% - from 2011 levels. in 2013, in light of the volatile external environment, global industry sales are projected to be in a range of 80 million - 85 million units. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (which as of 2011 includes an expanded truck segment compared with previous years) of about 108 million units exceeded global production by about 26 million units in 2012. in north america and europe, the two regions where the majority of industry revenue and profits are earned, excess capacity as a percent of production in 2012 was an estimated 11% and 37%, respectively. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 31 million units per year during the period from 2013 to 2017. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity (located outside of the region) directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. although there has been some firming of pricing in the u.s. market, particularly in 2011, it seems likely that over the long term intense competition and apparent excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price increases. despite weak demand conditions, light sweet crude oil prices increased from an average of $80 per barrel in 2010 to $95 per barrel in 2011, before declining slightly to about $87 per barrel in late 2012. commodity prices have declined recently, but over the longer term prices are likely to trend higher given global demand growth. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 130% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. as we execute our one ford plan, we are working to create best-in-class vehicles on global platforms that contribute higher margins, and offering a more balanced portfolio of vehicles with which we aim to be among the leaders in fuel efficiency in every segment in which we compete. increasing sales of smaller vehicles . like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india, and china, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets. the largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., sub-b, b, and c segments). to increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are significantly increasing our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures. in addition, we expect that increased demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles will continue in the mature markets of north america and europe and, consequently, we have seen and expect in the future strong demand in those markets for our small car offerings (including our new ford fiesta and focus models that are based on global platforms). although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles. currency exchange rate volatility. the european debt crisis has contributed to recent financial market volatility. coupled with the ongoing policy actions taken by central banks to support the financial system, exchange rates have remained volatile. most recently, the euro currency value has fluctuated as progress toward a solution to the sovereign debt crisis remains highly uncertain; the yen has depreciated significantly as a result of policy changes by the japanese government and bank of japan. the high inflation in newly-developed and emerging markets and capital flight to perceived stable investments have started to erode the strength of some local currencies. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. in some other markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade. while we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. in asia pacific africa, for example, the recent dramatic depreciation of the yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers. over a period of time, the emerging weakness of the yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. as another example, government actions in south america to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, could drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. trends and strategies we remain firm in our belief that our continued focus on executing the four key priorities of our one ford plan enables us to go further for our customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, and other key constituencies: aggressively restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix; accelerate development of new products our customers want and value; finance our plan and improve our balance sheet; and work together effectively as one team, leveraging our global assets. despite the external economic environment in recent years, we have made significant progress in transforming our business. aggressively restructure to operate profitably brands. in recent years, we have eliminated a number of brands from our portfolio in order to devote fully our financial, product development, production, and marketing and sales and services resources toward further growing our core ford and lincoln brands. we sold aston martin, jaguar, land rover, and volvo, and we discontinued the mercury brand and further reduced our stake in mazda. in 2012, we announced the revitalization of lincoln reflecting the brand's distinct product strategy, including its own dedicated design studio, separate creative agency in new york, and financial services team to complement the vehicle acquisition and ownership experience. manufacturing. we are committed to maintaining an appropriate manufacturing footprint in markets around the world, both in the more mature markets in which we have an established presence, and in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets. we are making substantial investments in newly-developed and emerging markets, including in china, india, and thailand to increase our production capacity with flexible new manufacturing plants. we and our unconsolidated affiliates in asia pacific africa launched two new plants in 2012, and have announced that we expect to complete seven more plants in the region by mid-decade. we also are making substantial investments in north america to grow production as industry sales rebound, including the addition of 400,000 annual incremental units of production capacity during 2012 and significant hiring in the united states as part of our manufacturing capacity expansions. in october 2012, we also announced our plan to transform our european operations in response to structural industry overcapacity in the region. our plan targets all areas of the business, including product, brand, and cost. we have detailed an aggressive product acceleration in europe, including plans to introduce 15 global vehicles within five years; we are taking steps to further strengthen our brand, and to enhance brand awareness in fast-growing emerging markets within the region; and we are moving to ensure a more efficient manufacturing footprint. as announced, we intend to close three european manufacturing facilities, which would affect approximately 6,200 positions. our intent to close our assembly plant in genk, belgium is subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, which we have commenced. see "outlook" for additional discussion of our european transformation plan. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) suppliers . we continue to work to strengthen our global supply base. as part of this process, we have been reducing the global number of production suppliers from 3,300 in 2004 to about 1,260 at year-end 2012. we have identified plans that will take us to a target of about 750 suppliers, and we are confident that our consolidation efforts will result in a stronger and healthier supply base. we continue to work closely with our suppliers to address any near-term capacity constraints as we continue to ramp up production. in addition, our move to global vehicle platforms increases our ability to source to common suppliers for the total global volume of vehicle components resulting in a smaller number of suppliers receiving a greater volume of purchases to support our global vehicle platforms and allowing us to gain greater economies of scale. ford and lincoln dealerships . our dealers are a source of strength in north america and around the world, representing the face of ford to local communities. our goal is to achieve a sustainable and profitable dealer network by rightsizing the number of dealerships, identifying the right locations, and ensuring the appropriate branded facilities to satisfy current and future demand. we are adding dealerships rapidly in markets in our asia pacific africa region where industry volume is growing at a rapid pace. our network includes about 460 dealerships in china, and about 170 dealerships in india. we have plans to continue our expansion of these networks, in addition to the dealership networks in our growth markets of brazil and russia. we have completed planned dealer consolidations in the united states to rightsize the number of ford and lincoln outlets, particularly in our largest 130 metropolitan markets. as part of these efforts, we have reduced the number of outlets in our u.s. ford and lincoln network from about 4,400 at the end of 2005 to about 3,290 at the end of 2012. this has contributed to increased profitability of our u.s. dealers as they have grown their businesses by investing in their facilities, employees, and communities while continuously striving to improve the experience of retail customers. product development. our one ford global product development system is fully operationalized, utilizing global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across global markets. through our "hub and satellite" approach, one lead product development engineering center - the hub - is assigned for each global vehicle line, thereby ensuring global scale and efficiency through common designs, parts, suppliers, and manufacturing processes. the hubs are supported by regional engineering centers - satellites - which also help deliver products tuned to local market customer preferences while maintaining global design dna. typical delivery metrics for global programs include 80% part commonality, 75% pre-sourcing to global suppliers, and 100% common manufacturing and assembly process. the global ford lineup is now one of the most extensive in the industry and includes a full spectrum of offerings from innovative small cars (b-platform products) such as the b-max sold in europe to large commercial trucks sold around the world. the strength of our one ford plan has enabled a focus on delivering the industry's best refresh rate, sustained and funded by efficiencies and delivered by a world-class global network of engineering centers. we agree with external analysts that a sustained fresh showroom is a good indicator of long-term market share growth. we are making swift progress on our commitment to platform consolidation. in 2007, we utilized 27 different vehicle platforms. by 2014, we will have 14 total platforms, and we are on track to meet our target of nine core platforms globally. by 2013, more than 87% of our global volume will be produced across just nine core platforms. one of these platforms, our global c-platform, which underpins a number of unique vehicles including the best-selling focus, will produce more platform volume than any other automaker - evidence small cars are a clear global priority. our new b-sized fiesta and c-sized focus are now among the best-selling nameplates in the world. over the past few years, we have been reinventing our global portfolio of vehicles - small, medium, large, cars, utilities and trucks - and have a mid-decade target of selling approximately 8 million vehicles around the world. in 2013, we also are focused on strategic opportunities around commercial vehicles. the global commercial vehicle industry represented approximately 17 million units in 2012, and is forecasted to grow by 4.8 million units - or 28% - through 2017. ford has been the best-selling brand of commercial vehicles in north america for 28 years. in europe, transit vans are the best-selling medium commercial brand. we plan to leverage these strengths through a common global family of commercial vehicles across all applicable markets. our full spectrum of van products now carries the transit badge umbrella and spans three platforms, including the b-sized transit courier; c-sized transit connect; full-size, one-ton front-wheel-drive transit custom; and full-size, two-ton rear-wheel-drive transit - providing right-sized built ford tough products for all customer applications and markets. our new lineup of full-size transit commercial vans will offer the largest available selection of configurations and engine types to global customers (and provide an initial average scale of more than 475,000 units annually). in europe, the transit custom, which launched in 2012, won the 2013 international van of the year award. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we also will supplement our commercial van line with personal-use variants, including the tourneo wagon offerings, delivering premium look and feel to discerning customers and additional premium revenue. further proof of our commitment to truck leadership is our 36 years as america's top truck producer. in 2012, our f-series outsold its nearest competitors by a wide margin. at the 2013 north american international auto show, we provided a glimpse of our strategy to protect and expand our truck leadership by showing the ford atlas concept - which won autoweek magazine's most significant vehicle award. the bold emotive styling, innovative features, and fuel economy leadership intentions are more than a hint of the designs to come. our market strength in trucks is due to great products and strong customer relationships - ford trucks are clear leaders in commercial subcategories, including mining, construction, oil and energy, small business, etc. our future market expectations are further bolstered by global economic recovery indicators. additionally, ford motor company is firmly committed to the transformation and success of the lincoln brand. the 2013 lincoln mkz is our first transformational product - with four all-new lincolns in total launching within the next four years. each will deliver: a uniquely lincoln experience, inside and out - built on our core platforms, leveraging global scale and efficiencies design excellence that is stunning and understated, with premium amenities offered on every nameplate product excellence that is enabled by class-leading technologies the full spectrum of customer services that discerning luxury customers expect and appreciate lincoln is focusing on the largest and fastest-growing segments of the luxury market, with the intention of having all-new entries competing in 90% of the premium industry by 2015. the global premium industry is projected to grow 39% by 2017. china will play a key role in that period. by 2017, the united states and china will represent 50% of the global premium opportunity - exactly why lincoln recently announced plans to enter china, the single largest car market in the world. accelerate development of new products our customers want and value our global product strategy is to serve our key geographic markets with a complete family of small, medium and large, cars, utilities and trucks that have best-in-class design and quality, are environmentally responsible, and contain high-value feature content. the result of this strategy is a full line of vehicles that: have bold, emotive exterior design are great to drive are great to sit in (with the comfort and convenience of a second home on wheels and exceptional quietness) provide fuel economy as a reason to buy are unmistakably a ford or lincoln in look, sound and feel provide exceptional value and quality developing products customers want and value for ford and lincoln demands consistent focus on our commitment to lead in four key areas - quality, green, safe and smart. quality. we have made significant strides in recent years to achieve world-class levels of quality and desirability. this has been accomplished by following an established global set of disciplined, standardized processes that are aimed at making us a leader in automotive quality. via our common global management team, we are leveraging our assets by eliminating duplication, implementing best practices and utilizing a systematic approach to quality. overall, we expect quality to improve in 2013, including improvement in north america, where we are making progress addressing specific customer concerns. we already have made steady and significant progress in south america, europe, and asia pacific africa. in fact, using the key quality measure of "things gone wrong" ("tgw") per 1,000 vehicles at three months in service, as measured by global quality research system, a ford-sponsored competitive research survey, we had our best performance of the last five years in 2012 in south america, europe, and asia pacific africa, and we expect to build on this solid accomplishment in 2013. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) green . our commitment and approach to sustainability is unique in the industry. we prefer to provide our customers the power of choice. all ford front-wheel drive and all-wheel drive global platforms are engineered to accept a full technology range of gasoline, diesel, hybrid, plug-in hybrid or electric vehicle propulsion systems. that concept, coupled with our commitment to standardized flexible production facilities, provides ford the advantage of producing vehicles to meet unique customer preferences or changes across markets real-time as they occur. more importantly, our commitment to provide fuel economy leadership with every all-new or significantly refreshed product is unwavering. the new c-platform is a good example. the 2013 focus sfe, with 2.0-liter gasoline engine technology, is among the fuel economy leaders in the united states, delivering an epa-rated 40 mpg on the highway. in europe, the same focus with a 1.6-liter diesel enjoys fuel economy/co 2 leadership in the most competitive diesel market in the world. the same focus is also available in north america as a full battery-electric vehicle with leadership in charge rate and range. focus electric has been certified by epa to offer 110 mpge in the city. additionally, the 2013 c-max hybrid and c-max energi plug-in hybrid sold in north america are built on the same c-platform and deliver leadership against competitive vehicles. lastly, our first global c-size sports car, focus st, delivers more than 250 horsepower from an advanced 2.0-liter ecoboost engine; focus st offers driving excitement and leadership in fuel economy against its competitors. all of these vehicles, from focus electric and c-max energi to the high-performance focus st, are built for north america at the same plant - michigan assembly plant - running on the same line resulting in lower overall costs. south america and asia pacific regions are rapidly evolving to embrace fuel economy and low-emissions technologies as well. therefore, ford is accelerating migration of world-class ecoboost, hybrid and next-generation diesels to those markets at the same time we are leveraging global platforms and top hats. that translates into global-scale cost and investment efficiencies as well as ongoing affordable freshening and technology cadence across all markets. safe . we are strengthening our safety leadership by focusing on three key areas - addressing driver behavior, enhancing crash protection even further, and pioneering the next frontier of safety with driver-assist crash-avoidance technologies. for example, we introduced mykey to help parents encourage teenagers to drive more safely and fuel efficiently, and to increase safety belt usage. mykey - which debuted on the 2010 focus and taurus, and is now standard on most ford and lincoln models - allows owners to program a key that can limit the vehicle's top speed and audio volume as well as mute the audio if front seat occupants are not buckled up. for 2013, the sync "do not disturb" feature was added to mykey. we also are the leader in another dimension of driver behavior - enabling drivers to more safely operate vehicles during recent years in which we have seen a sharp growth in the number of personal electronic devices (e.g., cell phones, mp3 players, etc.). our sync system provides hands-free connectivity, with more than 5 million sync-equipped vehicles on the road, and our just-launched second generation of sync has added a "do not disturb" feature that allows users to redirect incoming messages and calls directly to their cellular mailbox. we expect to have 14 million sync-equipped vehicles on the road by 2015 as we launch sync globally. we have led the industry in migrating driver assist technologies from premium segments to family segments. we also offer a new advanced crash-avoidance technology - collision warning with brake support - on several ford and lincoln vehicles including ford taurus, fusion, edge and explorer, and lincoln mks, mkx, mkz and mkt. this feature uses radar to monitor traffic directly ahead, and warns the driver with an authoritative beep and a red warning light projected on the windshield if a collision threat is detected. we also launched the industry's first-ever production use of inflatable seat belts, designed to provide additional protection for rear-seat occupants - often children and older passengers who can be more vulnerable to head, chest, and neck injuries. this technology is now incorporated into the 2013 ford flex and explorer, and lincoln mkt and mkz, and we plan to expand further offerings to other vehicles globally. other global driver-assist features such as blind spot information system (blis ), active park assist and adaptive cruise control have enjoyed strong customer demand and expanded vehicle applications. we also have begun offering the next suite of new safety features and driver-assistance technologies - we introduced lane-keeping aid and driver alert on the 2013 ford explorer and fusion and lincoln mks, mkz and mkt in north america and the ford mondeo and focus in europe. 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the independent car safety organization, euro ncap, named the focus europe's best-in-class small family car, while focus also became the industry's first vehicle to earn four euro ncap advanced technology awards, being recognized for active city stop, lane-keeping aid, driver alert, and forward alert. features such as speed limiter, torque vectoring control, traffic sign recognition system, all-seat beltminder and power child locks also have been introduced in europe on focus, c-max, grand c-max, mondeo, s-max and galaxy. smart. we recently completed our seventh consecutive year participating in the international consumer electronics show ("ces"), which many media say is becoming more important than ever to automakers. at the 2013 show, ford chief technical officer paul mascarenas and vice president of engineering hau thai-tang introduced the ford developer program, the automotive industry's first smartphone app software development program. the program allows for those outside the company with innovative ideas to work with ford to create compelling and valuable new features and services for our customers at an unprecedented rate. using sync applink , drivers are able to connect their smartphones and control their favorite mobile apps simply using their voice. we continue to work on the future of the connected car, having introduced the ford evos concept to north america for the first time at the 2012 ces. the evos concept showcases a dramatic four-door, four-seat fastback concept with a state-of-the-art lithium-ion plug-in hybrid powertrain that previews our vision for customer-focused, intuitive technologies. driver engagement technologies explore a seamless enhancement of the driving experience and smart electrified powertrain. technologies use online data to check for potential travel routes and to set the most efficient braking, steering and suspension settings with efficient and enjoyable powertrain settings, and to reserve a charging parking spot at the driver's destination. we also built on our power of choice fuel-efficient powertrain momentum by showcasing and offering drives of the fiesta with ecoboost 1.0-liter three-cylinder engine, fusion hybrid and c-max energi plug-in hybrid - which was named official car of ces at the 2013 show. building upon our demonstrated strategy to globally democratize our technology, fusion and explorer launched with a full suite of driver-assist technologies, each leading their respective segments. with features including lane-keeping aid, adaptive cruise control and active park assist, both vehicles help drivers with a new level of convenience. lane-keeping uses a forward-facing camera to monitor the lane markings ahead and warn drivers if they are drifting outside, and will even nudge the car back into the correct lane if the driver does not immediately respond. adaptive cruise control features radar that tracks the vehicles ahead of you and keeps pace and maintains a safe distance, adjusting as necessary to the speed of traffic. active park assist helps drivers minimize the stress associated with parallel parking. using sonar, the car can identify an appropriate parallel parking spot and then assist the driver by automatically steering the car into the spot while the driver maintains control of the throttle and brakes. additionally, the new lincoln mkz introduces active noise control ("anc"), which helps manage the sounds passengers hear inside the car. using elements of the audio system, anc technology will block out unwanted engine and road noise, helping improve the overall in-car experience. we also are celebrating the first anniversary of the new ford silicon valley lab, which opened in 2012 in downtown palo alto, california. our lab employees are working closely with local universities including stanford, new startup companies, and leading innovators such as facebook, microsoft, and google. leveraging key new technologies across multiple regions and on global platforms helps drive tremendous scale and efficiency savings that can be reinvested, allowing us to have the freshest showroom in the industry. in 2012, we showed growth in nearly every aspect of our business, with 25 new vehicles launched around the world. we expect to grow even further in 2013, driven by having the freshest products in the business - the average age of our global product lineup improves again this year compared with 2012. our aggressive freshening cadence and relentless focus on efficiency is producing results that are greater than our major global full-line competitors. our global programs continue to offer bold, emotive designs, high levels of quality, fuel economy leadership, top safety ratings, innovative technologies, and greater feature content than higher-series competitive offerings, which will allow us to reduce brand discounts and increase revenue across our portfolio. this overall combination of cost efficiency and revenue enhancement that is being realized from one ford and our global product strategy will help us continue to profitably grow and go further. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet execution of our one ford plan has generated significant positive automotive operating-related cash flow in recent years, which has allowed us to strengthen our balance sheet while continuing to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. we expect to generate significant positive automotive operating-related cash flow again in 2013. work together effectively as one team as part of the one team approach, we have implemented a disciplined business plan process to regularly review our business environment, risks and opportunities, strategy, and plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan. everyone is included and contributes, openness is encouraged, our leaders are responsible and accountable, we use facts and data to make our decisions, high performance teamwork is a performance criteria - and we follow this process every week, every month, and every quarter, driving continuous improvement. we believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing conditions - as we have done in the face of rapid changes in the market and business environment in the last few years. as needed, we convene daily management meetings to handle potentially acute situations, which allows us to ensure that we are vigorously managing daily developments and moving decisively in response to changing conditions. in addition, we are partnering with and enlisting all of our stakeholders to help us execute our plan to deal with our business realities and create an exciting and viable business going forward. we are reaching out and listening to customers, dealers, employees, labor unions, suppliers, investors, communities, retirees, and federal, state, and local governments. each of these constituencies is a critical part of the success of our business going forward. realizing our goal of profitable growth for all is as important to these stakeholders as it is to our shareholders. results of operations total company as shown in the table below, full year net income in 2012 was lower than a year ago, primarily reflecting the non-repeat of the 2011 release of the tax valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. 2012 2011 2010 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) income pre-tax results (excl. special items) $ 7,966 $ 8,763 $ 8,300 special items (246 ) (82 ) (1,151 ) pre-tax results (incl. special items) 7,720 8,681 7,149 (provision for)/benefit from income taxes (2,056 ) 11,541 (592 ) net income 5,664 20,222 6,557 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) 9 (4 ) net income attributable to ford $ 5,665 $ 20,213 $ 6,561 income before income taxes includes certain items ("special items") that we have grouped into "personnel and dealer-related items" and "other items" to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items. the first category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities. the second category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. as detailed in note 28 of the notes to the financial statements, we allocate special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and other automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table details automotive sector special items in each category: 2012 2011 2010 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) personnel and dealer-related items personnel-reduction actions (a) $ (498 ) $ (269 ) $ (145 ) mercury discontinuation/other dealer actions (71 ) (151 ) (339 ) job security benefits/other 17 93 36 total personnel and dealer-related items (552 ) (327 ) (448 ) other items cfma restructuring 625 aai consolidation (b) 136 fordsollers gain 1 401 u.s. pension lump-sum program (250 ) loss on sale of two component businesses (174 ) belgium pension settlement (109 ) debt reduction actions (60 ) (853 ) sale of volvo and related charges 8 179 other (32 ) 5 (29 ) total other items 306 245 (703 ) total special items $ (246 ) $ (82 ) $ (1,151 ) __________ (a) includes pension-related special items other than the u.s. pension lump-sum program. (b) the special item of $136 million is comprised of the $155 million gain from the consolidation of aai (see note 25 of the notes to the financial statements), less a related $19 million adjustment for sales in september 2012 of ford-brand vehicles produced by aai. discussion of automotive sector, financial services sector, and total company results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis and excludes special items unless otherwise specifically noted. the chart below details 2012 pre-tax results by sector: total company 2012 pre-tax profit of $8 billion reflects strong results from both sectors. compared with 2011, total company pre-tax profit declined, primarily explained by the expected reduction in financial services. 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive sector in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive pre-tax operating profit for our total automotive sector and reportable segments using the causal factors listed below, with revenue and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix - primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, and special lease offers contribution costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs other costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these include mainly structural costs, described below, as well as all other costs, which include items such as litigation costs and costs related to our after-market parts, accessories, and service business. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing and engineering - consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing- and engineering-related personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), new product launch expense, prototype materials, and outside engineering services spending-related - consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions - includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling - includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb - consists primarily of past service pension cost and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange - primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) impact of gains or losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the locations, including currency transactions, (ii) effect of remeasuring income, assets, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using u.s. dollars as the functional currency, or (iii) results of our foreign currency hedging activities net interest and other - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in our automotive sector's centrally-managed net interest (primarily interest expense, interest income, and other adjustments) and related fair value market adjustments in our investment portfolio and marketable securities as well as other items not included in the causal factors defined above 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2012 compared with 2011 total automotive. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, all four key metrics were about equal for 2012 compared with 2011, with pre-tax profit primarily reflecting higher net pricing and lower compensation costs (primarily the non-repeat of 2011 uaw ratification bonuses), offset by higher costs, mainly structural, and unfavorable volume and mix. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2012 and 2011 was $121.6 billion and $122.4 billion, respectively, a difference of about $800 million. an explanation of the changes, as reconciled to our income statement, is shown below (in billions): 2012 better/(worse) 2011 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ 3.0 contribution costs (a) commodity costs (incl. hedging) material costs excluding commodity costs (0.9 ) warranty/freight 0.8 other costs (a) structural costs (1.5 ) other (0.2 ) special items (0.4 ) total $ 0.8 _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income before income taxes are shown below for 2012. total automotive pre-tax profit in 2012 was more than explained by profit from ford north america. ford south america was profitable and ford asia pacific africa incurred a small loss, while ford europe reported a substantial loss. the loss in other automotive was more than explained by net interest expense. for 2013, we expect net interest expense to be higher than our fourth quarter 2012 run rate of $147 million, reflecting the increase in automotive debt associated with our january 2013 issuance (discussed under "liquidity and capital resources - automotive sector") and lower interest income. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford north america segment. the charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. as shown above, all four key metrics increased for 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in pre-tax profit for 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflected favorable market factors, lower contribution costs, and lower compensation costs (primarily the non-repeat of 2011 uaw ratification bonuses), offset partially by higher structural cost. for the year, total u.s. market share was down 1.3 percentage points, while u.s. retail share of retail industry declined 0.7 of a percentage point. the declines largely reflected the discontinuation of the crown victoria and ranger, capacity constraints, and reduced availability associated with our fusion and escape model changeovers. for 2013, we expect the strong ford north america performance to continue with higher pre-tax profits than 2012 and an operating margin of about 10%. this reflects a growing industry, a strong ford brand, an outstanding product line-up driven by industry-leading refresh rates, continued discipline in matching our production with demand, and a lean cost structure. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford south america segment. the charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. as shown above, all four key metrics decreased for 2012 compared with 2011. the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflects higher costs and unfavorable exchange, primarily in brazil, offset partially by higher net pricing. for 2013, we expect ford south america results to be about breakeven. although results will benefit from new products recently launched or to be launched during the year, the competitive environment and currency risks across the region, especially in venezuela, are expected to impact our profits adversely. in addition, government actions to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford europe segment. the charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. all four key metrics declined for 2012 compared with 2011. the decline in wholesales and revenue primarily reflected lower industry sales and market share, and reductions in dealer stocks. exchange was also a contributing factor adversely affecting net revenue. the decline in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 primarily reflected unfavorable market factors. our 2012 results are consistent with our guidance from october 2012, when we announced our european transformation plan. in 2013, compared with 2012, we expect to benefit from the non-repeat of dealer stock reductions to the degree incurred in 2012. however, consistent with our guidance, we will incur higher costs associated with restructuring actions, mainly investment in new products, as well as accelerated depreciation and costs to implement our revised manufacturing footprint. similar to our successful restructuring of north america, these are the investments we are making to enable the transformation of our european business for profitable growth in the future. while our restructuring-related investments this year are consistent with our october 2012 guidance, our outlook for industry volume in 2013 has deteriorated - now expected to be at the lower end of the range of 13 million to 14 million units. in addition, we are being affected adversely by higher pension costs due to lower discount rates and a stronger euro. as a result, we now expect a loss of about $2 billion for 2013, compared with prior guidance of a loss about equal to 2012. the business environment in europe remains uncertain. as is our practice, we will continue to monitor the situation and will take further action as necessary to ensure we remain on track to deliver our plan. 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford asia pacific africa segment. the charts below detail key metrics, and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. as shown above, all four key metrics improved for 2012 compared with 2011. the improvement in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 is more than explained by higher net pricing, favorable volume and mix, and favorable exchange, offset partially by higher costs associated with new products and investments to support higher volumes and future growth. our market share in the region increased sequentially each quarter during 2012, with fourth quarter 2012 market share at 3.4%, as we continued to benefit from increased capacity and new products. further demonstrating the growth we are experiencing in asia pacific africa, since 2009, wholesale volume has about doubled, market share has improved by half a point and net revenue has increased by about two-thirds even though our reported revenue does not include the revenue of unconsolidated joint ventures in china. for 2013, we expect asia pacific africa to be about breakeven. we expect our volume and revenue growth in the region to accelerate, supported by the launch of the all-new kuga, ecosport, and refreshed fiesta across the region, as well as the launch of mondeo and explorer in china. this will be offset in large part by continued strong investment across the region to support our longer-range growth plans. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 total automotive. the charts below detail full-year key metrics and the change in full-year 2011 pre-tax operating results compared with full-year 2010 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax operating results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue were higher than the year-ago period, but operating margin was down seven-tenths of a point; higher commodity costs reduced our margin by 1.8 points. total automotive pre-tax operating profit in 2011 was $6.3 billion, an increase of $1 billion from 2010. the increase in earnings is explained by strong performance in market factors, and lower interest expense net of interest income (due primarily to lower debt levels). this was offset partially by higher contribution costs, higher structural costs (including the effect of higher volumes, new product launches, and investments to support our future product, capacity, and brand-building plans), higher compensation costs in north america, and unfavorable exchange. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2011 and 2010 was $122.4 billion and $113.5 billion, respectively, a difference of $8.9 billion. an explanation of the change as reconciled to our income statement is shown below (in billions): 2011 better/(worse) 2010 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (11.4 ) contribution costs (a) commodity costs (incl. hedging) (2.3 ) material costs excluding commodity costs (1.2 ) warranty/freight (0.7 ) other costs (a) structural costs (1.4 ) other 0.1 special items (b) 8.0 total $ (8.9 ) _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. (b) special items primarily reflect the non-recurrence of volvo costs and expenses in 2011. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income before income taxes are shown below for 2011. total automotive pre-tax operating profit of $6.3 billion was led by a $6.2 billion profit from ford north america. ford south america earned a solid profit, while ford europe was about breakeven, incurring a small loss driven by the economic uncertainty in the region. ford asia pacific africa incurred a loss as well, more than explained by the impact of the japan and thailand natural disasters. the loss in other automotive was $601 million, reflecting higher interest expense net of interest income and unfavorable fair market valuation adjustments, mainly for our investment in mazda. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford north america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved in 2011 compared with the prior year. operating margin declined one-tenth of a percentage point; this includes an adverse impact of 2 points due to higher commodity costs. ford north america reported a pre-tax operating profit of $6.2 billion, compared with a profit of $5.4 billion a year ago. higher net pricing reflects the strength of our brand and products, a disciplined approach to incentive spending, and our ongoing practice to match production to customer demand. favorable volume and mix was more than explained by higher u.s. industry and dealer stocks. these were offset partially by unfavorable contribution costs reflecting higher commodity costs, higher material costs excluding commodities, and higher warranty and freight costs. other costs reflect unfavorable structural costs. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford south america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesales and revenue increased compared with a year ago, while operating margin declined. ford south america reported a pre-tax operating profit of $861 million, compared with a profit of $1 billion a year ago. the decline in earnings is more than explained by higher structural costs (driven primarily by local inflation), higher contribution costs (more than explained by commodity costs), and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by favorable net pricing and volume and mix. 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford europe segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved in 2011 compared with the prior year. operating margin declined in 2011, with higher commodity costs contributing a negative 1.5 points to europe's full-year margin. ford europe reported a pre-tax operating loss of $27 million, compared with a profit of $182 million a year ago. the decline in results is more than explained by higher commodity costs and material costs excluding commodities, as well as unfavorable exchange. these costs were offset partially by higher net pricing and favorable volume and mix. other reflects our continued investment in the craiova facility in romania in preparation for the production volume ramp-up in 2012, as well as lower parts and accessories profits. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford asia pacific africa segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2011 pre-tax operating profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. as shown above, wholesales and revenue increased compared with a year ago, while operating margin declined. ford asia pacific africa reported a pre-tax operating loss of $92 million, compared with a profit of $189 million a year ago. the decline in results reflects higher costs (primarily structural costs in support of ford asia pacific africa growth plans), unfavorable volume and mix (which includes the impact of events in japan and thailand), and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by higher net pricing. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector 2012 compared with 2011 as shown in the total company discussion above, we present our financial services sector results in two segments, ford credit and other financial services. ford credit, in turn, has two segments, north america and international. ford credit. the chart below details the change in 2012 pre-tax profit compared with 2011 by causal factor: the decline in pre-tax profits is more than explained by fewer leases being terminated, which resulted in fewer vehicles sold at a gain and lower financing margin, as higher yielding assets originated in prior years run off. results of ford credit ' operations and unallocated risk management for the years ended december 31 are shown below (in millions): income before income taxes 2012 2011 2012 over/(under) 2011 north america segment $ 1,550 $ 2,159 $ (609 ) international segment 249 371 (122 ) unallocated risk management (a) (102 ) (126 ) 24 income before income taxes $ 1,697 $ 2,404 $ (707 ) __________ (a) consists of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives primarily related to movements in interest rates. the full-year decrease in ford credit ' north america segment pre-tax earnings is more than explained by fewer lease terminations, which resulted in fewer vehicles sold at a gain, and lower financing margin as higher yielding assets originated in prior years run off. the full-year decrease in its international segment pre-tax results is more than explained by the non-recurrence of 2011 foreign currency translation adjustments related to the discontinuation of financing in australia, lower volume, and unfavorable lease residual performance, offset partially by higher financing margin. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's receivables, including finance receivables and operating leases at december 31 were as follows (in billions): 2012 2011 2010 receivables finance receivables - north america segment consumer retail installment and direct financing leases $ 39.5 $ 38.4 $ 39.1 non-consumer wholesale 18.1 15.5 13.3 dealer loan 1.4 1.1 1.1 other 1.1 1.0 0.8 total north america segment - finance receivables (a) 60.1 56.0 54.3 finance receivables - international segment consumer retail installment and direct financing leases 9.0 9.1 10.6 non-consumer wholesale 7.4 8.5 8.7 dealer loan 0.1 other 0.4 0.4 0.4 total international segment - finance receivables (a) 16.9 18.0 19.7 unearned interest supplements (1.5 ) (1.6 ) (1.9 ) allowance for credit losses (0.4 ) (0.5 ) (0.8 ) finance receivables, net 75.1 71.9 71.3 net investment in operating leases (a) 14.7 11.1 10.0 total receivables (b) $ 89.8 $ 83.0 $ 81.3 memo: total managed receivables (c) $ 91.3 $ 84.6 $ 83.2 __________ (a) at december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, includes consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $29.3 billion, $36 billion, and $35.8 billion, respectively, and non-consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $21.6 billion, $19.8 billion, and $18.7 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's consolidated financial statements. in addition, at december 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, includes net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses of $6.3 billion, $6.4 billion, and $6.2 billion, respectively, that have been included in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's financial statements. the receivables are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors. ford credit holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each of these securitization transactions. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding securitization transactions. (b) includes allowance for credit losses of $408 million, $534 million, and $854 million at december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (c) excludes unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables. receivables at december 31, 2012 increased from year-end 2011, primarily driven by increases in wholesale receivables and net investment in operating leases. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit losses. the charts below detail (i) annual trends of charge-offs (credit losses, net of recoveries), (ii) loss-to-receivables ("ltr") ratios (charge-offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, excluding the allowance for credit losses (also referred to as credit loss reserves) and unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables), (iii) credit loss reserves, and (iv) ford credit's credit loss reserves as a percentage of end-of-period ("eop") receivables: ford credit's charge-offs are down from 2011, primarily reflecting lower repossessions in the united states and lower losses in all international regions, offset partially by lower recoveries in the united states. the ltr ratio is about one-third lower than in 2011, and is the lowest since ford credit started tracking ltrs more than thirty years ago. reserves and reserves as a percent of eop receivables are both lower than a year ago reflecting the decrease in charge-offs. the allowance for credit losses is estimated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on such factors as portfolio quality, historical loss performance, and receivable levels. in purchasing retail finance and lease contracts, ford credit uses a proprietary scoring system that classifies contracts using several factors, such as credit bureau information, credit bureau scores (e.g., fico score), and contract characteristics. in addition to ford credit's proprietary scoring system, it considers other factors, such as employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, ford credit classified between 5% - 6% of the outstanding u.s. retail finance and lease contracts in its portfolio as high risk at contract inception. for additional discussion, see "critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses" below. residual risk. ford credit is exposed to residual risk on operating leases and similar balloon payment products where the customer may return the financed vehicle to ford credit. residual risk is the possibility that the amount ford credit obtains from returned vehicles will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. for additional discussion, see "critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases" below. north america retail operating lease experience ford credit uses various statistics to monitor its residual risk: placement volume measures the number of leases ford credit purchases in a given period; termination volume measures the number of vehicles for which the lease has ended in the given period; and return volume reflects the number of vehicles returned to ford credit by customers at lease-end. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's north america segment accounted for 98% of its total operating leases at december 31, 2012. the following table shows operating lease placement, termination, and return volumes for this segment for the years ending december 31 (in thousands, except for percentages): 2012 2011 2010 placements 257 219 120 terminations 126 246 408 returns 76 144 281 memo: return rates 60 % 59 % 69 % in 2012, placement volumes were up 38,000 units compared with 2011, primarily reflecting higher industry sales. termination volumes decreased by 120,000 units compared with last year, reflecting lower placement volumes in 2009. return volumes decreased 68,000 units compared with last year, primarily reflecting lower terminations. u.s. ford and lincoln brand operating lease experience. the following chart shows annual return volumes and auction values at incurred vehicle mix for vehicles returned in the respective periods. in 2012, ford credit's u.s. lease originations represented about 15% of total u.s. retail sales of ford and lincoln brand vehicles, and the u.s. operating lease portfolio accounted for about 89% of ford credit's total investment in operating leases at december 31, 2012. ford credit ' lease return volumes in 2012 were about 30% lower than 2011, reflecting primarily the lower lease placements in 2009. its 2012 lease return rate was 62%, up 6 percentage points compared with 2011 , reflecting a higher mix of 24 month contracts. in 2012, ford credit's auction values for vehicles subject to 36-month leases continued to increase, up $995 per unit from 2011. the increase primarily reflects vehicles with higher content, including a higher mix of lincolns. ford credit's worldwide net investment in operating leases was $14.7 billion at the end of 2012, up from $11.1 billion in 2011. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 the chart below details the change in 2011 pre-tax profit compared with 2010 by causal factor. the decline in ford credit's pre-tax profit reflects fewer leases being terminated and the related vehicles sold at a gain, and lower credit loss reserve reductions. liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by generating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding. for a discussion of risks to our liquidity, see "item 1a. risk factors," as well as note 31 of the notes to the financial statements regarding commitments and contingencies that could impact our liquidity. gross cash. automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, net of any securities-in-transit. gross cash at december 31 was as follows (in billions): 2012 2011 2010 cash and cash equivalents $ 6.2 $ 7.9 $ 6.3 marketable securities 18.2 15.0 14.2 total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 24.4 22.9 20.5 securities-in-transit (a) (0.1 ) gross cash $ 24.3 $ 22.9 $ 20.5 __________ (a) the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and for which there was a payable or receivable recorded on the balance sheet at period-end. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated a-1/p-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. within our automotive gross cash portfolio, we currently do not hold investments in government obligations of greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain, nor did we hold any at december 31, 2012. in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive gross cash into operating-related and other items (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions, 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the financial services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other -- primarily financing-related). our key liquidity metrics are operating-related cash flow (which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash), automotive gross cash, and automotive liquidity. automotive gross cash and liquidity as of the dates shown were as follows (in billions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 gross cash $ 24.3 $ 22.9 available credit lines revolving credit facility, unutilized portion 9.5 8.8 local lines available to foreign affiliates, unutilized portion 0.7 0.7 automotive liquidity $ 34.5 $ 32.4 we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash. this differs from a gaap cash flow statement and differs from net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities , the most directly comparable gaap financial measure. changes in automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions): 2012 2011 2010 gross cash at end of period $ 24.3 $ 22.9 $ 20.5 gross cash at beginning of period 22.9 20.5 24.9 total change in gross cash $ 1.4 $ 2.4 $ (4.4 ) automotive income before income taxes (excluding special items) $ 6.3 $ 6.3 $ 5.3 capital expenditures (5.5 ) (4.3 ) (3.9 ) depreciation and special tools amortization 3.7 3.6 3.8 changes in working capital (a) (2.3 ) 0.3 (0.1 ) other/timing differences (b) 1.2 (0.3 ) (0.7 ) total operating-related cash flows 3.4 5.6 4.4 cash impact of personnel-reduction programs accrual (0.4 ) (0.3 ) (0.2 ) net receipts from financial services sector (c) 0.7 4.2 2.7 other (d) 1.1 (0.2 ) (0.8 ) cash flow before other actions 4.8 9.3 6.1 net proceeds from/(payments on) automotive sector debt 0.9 (6.0 ) (12.1 ) contributions to funded pension plans (3.4 ) (1.1 ) (1.0 ) dividends/other (0.9 ) 0.2 2.6 total change in gross cash $ 1.4 $ 2.4 $ (4.4 ) _________ (a) working capital comprised of changes in receivables, inventory, and trade payables. (b) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, compensation, marketing, and warranty, as well as additional factors, such as the impact of tax payments. (c) primarily distributions and tax payments received from ford credit. (d) 2012 includes cash and marketable securities resulting from the consolidation of aai. with respect to "changes in working capital," in general we carry relatively low trade receivables compared to our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. in addition, these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), as of the dates shown (in billions): 2012 2011 2010 net cash provided by/(used in) by operating activities $ 6.3 $ 9.4 $ 6.4 items included in operating-related cash flows capital expenditures (5.5 ) (4.3 ) (3.9 ) proceeds from the exercise of stock options 0.1 0.3 net cash flows from non-designated derivatives (0.8 ) 0.1 (0.2 ) items not included in operating-related cash flows cash impact of job security benefits and personnel-reduction actions 0.4 0.3 0.2 contributions to funded pension plans 3.4 1.1 1.0 tax refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates (0.1 ) (1.4 ) (0.2 ) settlement of outstanding obligation with affiliates (0.3 ) other 0.3 0.8 operating-related cash flows $ 3.4 $ 5.6 $ 4.4 credit agreement . lenders under our credit agreement have commitments totaling $9.3 billion in a revolving credit facility that will mature on november 30, 2015, and commitments totaling an additional $307 million in a revolving credit facility that will mature on november 30, 2013. our credit agreement is free of material adverse change clauses, restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and minimum net worth requirements) and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the credit agreement contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the revolving credit facilities. on may 22, 2012, the collateral securing our credit agreement was automatically released upon our senior, unsecured, long-term debt being upgraded to investment grade by fitch and moody's. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings, the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be reinstated. at december 31, 2012, the utilized portion of the revolving credit facilities was $93 million, representing amounts utilized as letters of credit. less than 1% of the commitments in the revolving credit facilities are from financial institutions that are based in greece, ireland, italy, portugal, and spain. u.s. department of energy ("doe") advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ("atvm") incentive program. in september 2009, we entered into a loan arrangement and reimbursement agreement ("arrangement agreement") with the doe, pursuant to which the doe agreed to (i) arrange a 13-year multi-draw term loan facility (the "facility") under the atvm program in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5.9 billion, (ii) designate us as a borrower under the atvm program and (iii) cause the federal financing bank to enter into a note purchase agreement for the purchase of notes to be issued by us evidencing such loans. in august 2012, the facility was fully drawn with $5.9 billion outstanding. we began repayment in september 2012 and at december 31, 2012, an aggregate of $5.6 billion was outstanding. the proceeds of the atvm loan have been used to finance certain costs for fuel-efficient, advanced-technology vehicles. the principal amount of the atvm loan bears interest at a blended rate based on the u.s. treasury yield curve at the time each draw was made (with the weighted-average interest rate on all such draws being about 2.3% per annum). the atvm loan is repayable in equal quarterly installments of $148 million, which began in september 2012 and will end in june 2022. european investment bank ("eib") credit facility. on july 12, 2010, ford motor company limited, our operating subsidiary in the united kingdom ("ford of britain"), entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 450 million (equivalent to $729 million at december 31, 2012) with the eib. proceeds of loans drawn under the facility are being used to fund costs for the research and development of fuel-efficient engines and commercial vehicles with lower emissions, and related upgrades to an engine manufacturing plant. the facility was fully drawn in the third quarter of 2010, and ford of britain had outstanding $729 million of loans at december 31, 2012 . the loans are five -year, non-amortizing loans secured by a guarantee from the u.k. government for 80% of the outstanding principal amount and cash collateral from ford of britain equal to approximately 20% of the outstanding principal amount, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.9% per annum excluding a commitment fee of 0.30% to the u.k. government. ford of britain has pledged substantially all of its fixed assets, receivables and inventory to the u.k. government as collateral, and we have guaranteed ford of britain's obligations to the u.k. government related to the government's guarantee. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) export-import bank of the united states ("ex-im") and private export funding corporation ("pefco") secured revolving loan. at december 31, 2012, this working capital facility, which supports vehicle exports from the united states, was fully drawn at $300 million. the facility will renew annually until june 15, 2015, provided that no payment or bankruptcy default exists and ex-im continues to have a perfected security interest in the collateral, which consists of vehicles in transit in the united states to be exported to canada, mexico, and other select markets. other automotive credit facilities. at december 31, 2012, we had $901 million of local credit facilities available to non-u.s. automotive affiliates, of which $140 million had been utilized. of the $901 million of committed credit facilities, $345 million expires in 2013, $196 million expires in 2014, $318 million expires in 2015, and $42 million thereafter. net cash. our automotive sector net cash calculation as of the dates shown was as follows (in billions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 gross cash $ 24.3 $ 22.9 less: long-term debt 12.9 12.1 debt payable within one year 1.4 1.0 total debt 14.3 13.1 net cash $ 10.0 $ 9.8 total debt at december 31, 2012 increased by about $1.2 billion from december 31, 2011 , primarily reflecting the additional drawdowns of low-cost loans for advanced technology vehicle development and our renminbi-denominated debt issuance in hong kong. not shown in the table above is the $2 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.75% notes due january 15, 2043 we issued in january 2013. with this issuance we took advantage of favorable market conditions to issue low-cost, long-term debt, the proceeds of which have been used, in part, to redeem approximately $600 million principal amount of 7.50% notes due june 10, 2043, with the remainder to be contributed to our funded pension plans during 2013 to support our pension de-risking actions (discussed below). this action is consistent with our mid-decade target of automotive debt levels at about $10 billion. pension plan contributions and strategy . worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $18.7 billion at december 31, 2012, compared with being underfunded by $15.4 billion at december 31, 2011. the deterioration is more than explained by sharply lower discount rates, with the u.s. weighted-average discount rate declining to 3.84% at the end of 2012 from 4.64% at the end of 2011. our long-term strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy will reduce balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduce our risk profile. the key elements of this strategy include: limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants; reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions; progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation to be reached over the next several years of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as the voluntary lump sum payout program started in 2012 for u.s. salaried retirees. in 2012, we contributed $3.4 billion to our worldwide funded pension plans, an increase of $2.3 billion compared with 2011. during 2013, we expect to contribute from automotive cash and cash equivalents about $5 billion to our worldwide funded plans (including discretionary contributions of about $3.4 billion, largely to our u.s. plans) and to make $400 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a total of about $5.4 billion. the voluntary lump sum payout program we started in 2012 will continue through 2013. to date, eligible retirees have accepted lump sum offers that have resulted in about $1.2 billion of our pension obligations being settled. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. pension plans in 2013. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) based on present planning assumptions for long-term asset returns, a normalization of discount rates and planned cash contributions, we expect our global funded pension obligations to be fully funded by mid-decade, with variability on a plan-by-plan basis. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements. liquidity sufficiency . one of the four key priorities of our one ford plan is to finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business. the actions described above are consistent with this priority. based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. we will continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet, primarily by working to ensure our underlying business generates positive automotive operating-related cash flow, even as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. financial services sector ford credit funding strategy. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit completed its full-year 2012 funding plan, issuing over $23 billion of public term funding. ford credit ' public unsecured issuance was over $9 billion, including more than $700 million issued under the ford credit u.s. retail notes program. ford credit also issued its first public investment grade unsecured debt transaction since 2005. additionally, ford credit launched an unsecured commercial paper program in the united states, which has grown to about $1.7 billion. ford credit's liquidity remains strong and it ended the year with $19.7 billion of available liquidity and $31.5 billion of committed capacity, compared with about $17 billion and $33 billion at december 31, 2011, respectively. ford credit ' funding plan is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, including disruption in the capital markets that could impact both unsecured debt and asset-backed securities issuance and the effects of regulatory reform efforts on the financial markets. potential impacts of industry events and regulation on ford credit ' ability to access debt and derivatives markets, or renew its committed liquidity programs in sufficient amounts and at competitive rates, represents another risk to its funding plan. as a result of such events or regulation, ford credit may need to reduce new originations of receivables , thereby reducing its ongoing profits and adversely affecting its ability to support the sale of our vehicles . ford credit is focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirement through economic cycles. funding. ford credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. its funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of ford products, which are influenced by ford-sponsored special-rate financing programs that are available exclusively through ford credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. ford credit's funding sources include primarily securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and unsecured debt. ford credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short- and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states, europe, mexico, and other international markets. at december 31, 2012, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $4.9 billion. at december 31, 2012, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was about $1.7 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit does not hold reserves specifically to fund the payment of any of its unsecured short-term funding obligations. instead, ford credit maintains multiple sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and uncommitted credit facilities, which should be sufficient to meet ford credit's unsecured short-term funding obligations. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding portfolio. the chart below details the trends in the funding of ford credit's managed receivables: __________ (a) the ford interest advantage program consists of ford credit's floating rate demand notes. (b) obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. (c) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. at year-end 2012, managed receivables were $91 billion and ford credit ended the year with about $11 billion in cash. securitized funding was 48% of managed receivables, down from 55% at year-end 2011. this reflects a greater mix of unsecured debt given ford credit's improved credit spreads and the mandatory exchange of $2.5 billion of asset-backed ford upgrade exchanged linked ("fuel") notes for unsecured notes of ford credit, which was triggered by the upgrade to investment grade of ford credit's long-term, unsecured debt by two credit rating agencies during the second quarter of 2012. ford credit is projecting 2013 year-end managed receivables in the range of $95 billion to $105 billion and securitized funding is expected to represent about 42% to 47% of total managed receivables. it is ford credit's expectation that the securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables will decline going forward. public term funding plan. the following table illustrates ford credit's planned issuances for full-year 2013, and its public term funding issuances in 2012, 2011, and 2010 (in billions): public term funding plan 2013 forecast 2012 2011 2010 unsecured $ 7-10 $ 9 $ 8 $ 6 securitizations (a) 10-14 14 11 11 total $ 17-24 $ 23 $ 19 $ 17 __________ (a) includes rule 144a offerings. in 2012, ford credit completed over $23 billion of public term funding in the united states, canada, and europe, including over $9 billion of unsecured debt and $14 billion of securitizations. for 2013, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $17 billion to $24 billion, consisting of $7 billion to $10 billion of unsecured debt and $10 billion to $14 billion of public securitizations. through february 18, 2013, ford credit completed about $4 billion of public term funding transactions in the united states, canada, and europe, including about $2 billion of unsecured debt and $2 billion of securitizations. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the following table illustrates ford credit's liquidity programs and utilization (in billions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 liquidity sources (a) cash (b) $ 10.9 $ 12.1 $ 14.6 unsecured credit facilities 0.9 0.7 1.1 fcar bank lines 6.3 7.9 9.0 conduit / bank asset-backed securitizations ("abs") 24.3 24 24.2 total liquidity sources $ 42.4 $ 44.7 $ 48.9 utilization of liquidity securitization cash (c) $ (3.0 ) $ (3.7 ) $ (4.2 ) unsecured credit facilities (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.5 ) fcar bank lines (5.8 ) (6.8 ) (6.7 ) conduit / bank abs (12.3 ) (14.5 ) (8.6 ) total utilization of liquidity (21.2 ) (25.2 ) (20.0 ) gross liquidity 21.2 19.5 28.9 capacity in excess of eligible receivables (1.5 ) (2.4 ) (6.3 ) liquidity available for use $ 19.7 $ 17.1 $ 22.6 __________ (a) fcar and conduits subject to availability of sufficient assets and ability to obtain derivatives to manage interest rate risk; fcar commercial paper must be supported by bank lines equal to at least 100% of the principal amount; conduits include committed securitization programs. (b) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (c) securitization cash is to be used only to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. at december 31, 2012, ford credit had $42.4 billion of committed capacity and cash diversified across a variety of markets and platforms. the utilization of its liquidity totaled $21.2 billion at year-end, compared with $25.2 billion at year-end 2011. the decrease of $4 billion reflects lower usage of its private conduits, fcar outstanding commercial paper balance, and securitized cash. ford credit ended 2012 with gross liquidity of $21.2 billion. capacity in excess of eligible receivables decreased to $1.5 billion. this provides a funding source for future originations and flexibility to transfer capacity among markets and asset classes where most needed. total liquidity available for use continues to remain strong at $19.7 billion at year-end 2012, $2.6 billion higher than year-end 2011. ford credit is focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements through economic cycles. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. at december 31, 2012, ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) totaled $10.9 billion, compared with $12.1 billion at year-end 2011. in the normal course of its funding activities, ford credit may generate more proceeds than are required for its immediate funding needs. these excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for its short-term funding needs and give it flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) primarily include u.s. treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions and non-u.s. central banks, corporate investment-grade securities, a-1/p-1 (or higher) rated commercial paper, debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. government agencies, supranational institutions and money market funds that carry the highest possible ratings. ford credit currently does not hold cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities consisting of investments in government obligations of greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain, nor did it hold any at december 31, 2012. the average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. ford credit monitors its cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities include amounts to be used only to support ford credit's securitization transactions of $3.0 billion and $3.7 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. ford credit's substantial liquidity and cash balance have provided the opportunity to selectively call and repurchase its unsecured and asset-backed debt through market transactions. for full-year 2012, ford credit repurchased and called an aggregate principal amount of $628 million of its unsecured and asset-backed debt. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit facilities and committed liquidity programs. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding credit facilities and committed liquidity programs for ford credit. while there is a risk of non-renewal of some of ford credit ' committed liquidity programs, which could lead to a reduction in the size of these programs and/or higher costs, ford credit ' capacity in excess of eligible receivables would enable it to absorb some reductions. ford credit ' ability to obtain funding under these programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for certain securitization transactions. balance sheet liquidity profile. ford credit defines its balance sheet liquidity profile as the cumulative maturities, including the impact of prepayments, of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash, less the cumulative debt maturities over upcoming annual periods. the following chart shows its cumulative maturities for the periods presented at december 31, 2012: __________ (a) includes finance receivables net of unearned income, investment in operating leases net of accumulated depreciation, cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (b) retail and lease abs are treated as amortizing immediately to match the underlying assets. (c) includes all of the wholesale abs term and conduit maturities of $8 billion that otherwise contractually extend to 2014 and beyond. ford credit ' balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. maturities of investment in operating leases consist primarily of rental payments attributable to depreciation over the remaining life of the lease and the expected residual value at lease termination. maturities of finance receivables and investment in operating leases in the chart above include expected prepayments for ford credit's retail installment sale contracts and investment in operating leases. the 2013 finance receivables maturities in the chart above also include all of the wholesale receivables maturities that are otherwise extending beyond 2013. the chart above also reflects the following adjustments to debt maturities to match all of the asset-backed debt maturities with the underlying asset maturities: the 2013 maturities include all of the wholesale securitization transactions , even if the maturities extend beyond 2013; and retail securitization transactions under certain committed liquidity programs are assumed to amortize immediately rather than amortizing after the expiration of the commitment period. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for retail, wholesale, and lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. ford credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 total debt $ 89.3 $ 84.7 $ 82.9 equity 9.7 8.9 10.3 financial statement leverage (to 1) 9.2 9.5 8.0 the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 total debt $ 89.3 $ 84.7 $ 82.9 adjustments for cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (a) (10.9 ) (12.1 ) (14.6 ) adjustments for derivative accounting (b) (0.8 ) (0.7 ) (0.3 ) total adjusted debt $ 77.6 $ 71.9 $ 68.0 equity $ 9.7 $ 8.9 $ 10.3 adjustments for derivative accounting (b) (0.3 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) total adjusted equity $ 9.4 $ 8.7 $ 10.2 managed leverage (to 1) (c) 8.3 8.3 6.7 __________ (a) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. (b) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. (c) equals total adjusted debt over total adjusted equity. ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2012, ford credit's managed leverage was 8.3:1, unchanged from december 31, 2011. ford credit's guidance for managed leverage in 2013 is to be within the range of 8:1 to 9:1. in 2012, ford credit paid $600 million in distributions to its parent. total company equity. at december 31, 2012 , total equity attributable to ford motor company was $15.9 billion, an increase of about $900 million compared with december 31, 2011 . the increase is more than explained by favorable changes in retained earnings , related to full-year 2012 net income attributable to ford motor company of $5.7 billion offset partially by cash dividends declared of $573 million. the favorable changes in retained earnings are offset partially by unfavorable changes in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) of $4.1 billion (more than explained by unfavorable pension and opeb adjustments) and treasury stock purchases of $126 million. credit ratings. our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("nrsros") by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ("dbrs"); fitch, inc. ("fitch"); moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies, inc. ("s&amp;p"). 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. there have been no ratings actions taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2012. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit issuer default/ corporate/ issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend dbrs bbb (low) bbb (low) stable bbb (low) r-3 stable fitch bbb- bbb- stable bbb- f3 stable moody's n/a baa3 stable baa3 p-3 stable s&amp;p bb+ bb+ positive bb+ * nr positive __________ * s&amp;p assigns fce a long-term senior unsecured rating of bbb-, maintaining a one notch differential versus ford credit. outlook our one ford plan - to aggressively restructure to operate profitably at current demand and changing model mix, accelerate development of new products our customers want and value, finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, and work together effectively as one team leveraging our global assets - continues to be the guiding strategy for our business. the following summarizes results against planning assumptions and key metrics established at the beginning of 2012: full-year 2012 full-year 2011 results plan results industry volume (million units) (a) united states 13.0 13.5 14.5 14.8 europe (b) 15.3 14.0 15.0 14.0 operational metrics compared with prior full year: u.s. market share 16.5% about equal 15.2% europe market share (b) 8.3% about equal 7.9% quality mixed improve mixed financial metrics compared with prior full year: automotive pre-tax operating profit (c) $6.3 billion higher $6.3 billion ford credit pre-tax operating profit $2.4 billion lower $1.7 billion total company pre-tax operating profit (c) $8.8 billion about equal $8 billion automotive structural cost increase (d) $1.4 billion less than $2 billion $1.5 billion automotive operating margin (c) 5.4% improve 5.3% absolute amount: capital spending $4.3 billion $5.5 billion $6 billion $5.5 billion __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) for the 19 markets we track. (c) excludes special items; automotive operating margin equal to automotive pre-tax results excluding other automotive divided by automotive revenue. (d) structural cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange, and exclude special items and discontinued operations. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our projected vehicle production is as follows (in thousands): first quarter 2013 (a) planned vehicle unit production over/(under) first quarter 2012 ford north america 770 93 ford south america 115 18 ford europe 405 (13) ford asia pacific africa 275 62 total 1,565 160 __________ (a) includes production of ford and jmc brand vehicles to be sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. the year-over-year increase in first quarter planned production reflects higher volumes in all regions except europe. planned production is consistent with our disciplined strategy to match production to consumer demand. we expect 2013 global economic growth to be in the range of 2% - 3%, with global industry sales in the 80 million - 85 million unit range. we expect u.s. economic growth in the range of 2% - 2.5% for the year, with industry sales supported by replacement demand given the higher-than-normal average age of vehicles on the road. in south america, brazil's easing of fiscal and monetary policies, such as sales tax reductions and policy interest rate cuts to historic lows, are setting the stage for renewed economic growth. on the other hand, economic and political uncertainty and risk are increasing in venezuela. in europe, we expect weak economic conditions to continue into 2013, especially in countries undergoing fiscal austerity programs. recent policy moves are positive steps, but we do not believe they are enough to resolve the economic crisis and restore business and consumer confidence. in asia pacific africa, the latest data suggest economic recovery is underway in china, while the economic slowdown in india seems to be bottoming out. although countries are at different stages of the economic cycle, better growth is expected in 2013 across the asia pacific africa region. overall, despite challenges, we expect global economic growth to continue in 2013. based on the current economic environment, our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2013 include the following: full-year 2012 results 2013 full-year plan industry volume (million units) (a) united states 14.8 15.0 - 16.0 europe (b) 14.0 13.0 - 14.0 china 19.0 19.5 - 21.5 operational metrics compared with prior full year: u.s. market share 15.2% higher europe market share (b) 7.9% about equal china market share (c) 3.2% higher quality mixed improve financial metrics compared with prior full year: total company pre-tax profit (d) $8 billion about equal automotive operating margin (d) 5.3% about equal / lower automotive operating-related cash flow $3.4 billion higher __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) for the 19 markets we track. (c) includes ford and jmc brand vehicles sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates. (d) excludes special items; automotive operating margin equal to automotive pre-tax results excluding other automotive divided by automotive revenue. we project industry volume for the united states and china will increase in 2013 compared with 2012, while we expect industry volume for the 19 markets we track in europe to weaken to the lower end of the range above in 2013 compared with 2012. we expect share for the markets we track in europe to be about the same in 2013 as in 2012 and we expect our market share in the united states and china to increase, reflecting our strong products and brand, as well as an expanded product portfolio (which also now covers more vehicle segments in markets such as china). we also expect positive net pricing to continue in 2013, and we expect quality to improve. 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we expect total company pre-tax profit in 2013 to be about equal to strong results in 2012, and automotive operating margin to be about equal to or lower than 2012. projected 2013 operating margin reflects projected revenue increases, partially offset by the impact of structural cost increases to support higher volumes, new product launches, and growth plans, as well as more than $1 billion of non-cash structural cost increases. the non-cash structural cost increases include higher pension expense due to historically low discount rates, cessation of favorable amortization associated with previous benefit plan changes, and higher depreciation reflecting accelerated depreciation associated with our european restructuring and cessation of low depreciation resulting from prior asset impairments in north america. we expect automotive operating-related cash flow to be higher in 2013 than 2012, notwithstanding higher planned capital spending of about $7 billion. turning to the regions, we expect strong ford north america performance to continue, with higher pre-tax profits than 2012 and operating margin of about 10% for 2013. our forecast reflects growing industry volume, our strong ford brand, our outstanding product line-up driven by industry-leading refresh rates, our continued discipline in matching production with demand, and our lean cost structure. going forward, we will continue to work to sustain and grow our strong north american operations. for 2013, we expect ford south america results to be about breakeven. although results will benefit from new products recently launched or to be launched during the year, the competitive environment and currency risks across the region, especially in venezuela, are expected to impact our profits adversely. in addition, government actions to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers that negatively impact our results. going forward, we will continue expanding our product portfolio with global products, and look at all areas of our business to improve operating results. as we have indicated, we view the challenges the automotive industry faces in europe to be more structural than cyclical in nature; industry sales volume for the 19 markets we track in europe has dropped 20% in the past five years, with only modest industry improvement expected by mid-decade. against this backdrop, we announced in october 2012 our accelerated transformation plan for ford europe, which targets all areas of the business to return to profitability by mid-decade -- including new products and technologies, strengthened brand image, and improved cost efficiencies. our plan includes an aggressive new product rollout for the region, with 15 global vehicles launched within five years, along with a broad array of smart technologies. we are introducing initiatives to continue strengthening the ford brand in the region, including strategic reduction of dealer inventories that was largely completed in 2012. finally, we plan to close three facilities and relocate production for a more efficient manufacturing footprint. we plan to close our vehicle assembly plant and our tooling and stamping operations in the united kingdom during 2013, and, subject to an information and consultation process with employee representatives, we intend to close our vehicle assembly plant in belgium in late 2014. once completed, our actions would reduce ford europe's installed assembly capacity (excluding russia) by 18% or 355,000 units, affect 13% of ford europe's workforce, and result in annual gross cost savings of about $450 million - $500 million. we are on track to deliver our european transformation plan. in 2013, we will benefit from the non-repeat of dealer stock reductions to the same degree incurred in 2012. as we previously guided, we will incur higher costs associated with restructuring actions in 2013 compared with 2012, mainly reflecting investment in new products, accelerated depreciation, and costs to implement our revised manufacturing footprint. as we did with our successful restructuring in north america, we are making these investments now to transform our european business for profitable growth in the future. since providing guidance in october 2012, our outlook for industry volume in europe has deteriorated. we now expect industry volume to be in the lower end of the range of 13 million to 14 million units; the seasonally-adjusted annual rate of industry sales for the markets we track in europe for the fourth quarter of 2012 was the lowest in nearly 20 years. in addition, we are being adversely impacted by higher pension costs due to lower discount rates, and a stronger euro. as a result, we now expect our full-year 2013 pre-tax loss for ford europe to be about $2 billion, compared with prior guidance of a loss about equal to 2012. the business environment in europe remains uncertain, and, as is our practice, we will continue to monitor the situation and take further action as necessary. we believe that 2013 is likely the trough for european industry sales volume, and we expect industry sales volume and our results to begin to improve in 2014. our plan to return ford europe to profitability by mid-decade is driven by higher industry volume, higher market share from our product and brand initiatives, growth in emerging markets, richer mix, improved contribution margin, and our more efficient manufacturing footprint. a partial offset will be higher structural costs as we reconfigure and grow our business in europe. as we proceed with our restructuring, most financial effects will flow through our operating results. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) employee separation costs, however, will be reflected as a special item. longer-term, we are targeting ford europe to achieve an operating margin in the range of 6% to 8%. for ford asia pacific africa, we expect 2013 results to be about breakeven. we expect our volume and revenue growth in the region to continue to accelerate, supported by the launch of all-new kuga, ecosport, and refreshed fiesta across the region, as well as the launch of mondeo and explorer in china. this will be offset in large part by continued strong investment across the region to support our longer-range growth plans. looking ahead, we see the results of our one ford plan taking hold in asia pacific africa, with record volume, revenue, and market share increasing as investments in new facilities and products gain traction. we also are continuing the revitalization of our lincoln brand reflecting the brand's distinct product strategy, including its own dedicated design studio, separate creative agency in new york, and financial services team to complement the vehicle acquisition and ownership experience -- and announced that we will be bringing the lincoln brand to the burgeoning chinese market. turning from our automotive to financial services sector, we expect ford credit to generate 2013 pre-tax profit about equal to 2012, with managed receivables at year-end 2013 in the range of $95 billion to $105 billion, managed leverage continuing in the range of 8:1 to 9:1, and planned distributions of about $200 million. overall, we expect 2013 to be another strong year for ford motor company, as we continue to work toward our mid-decade outlook. we have made tremendous progress in recent years by executing the fundamentals of our one ford plan, and there are significant benefits ahead as we leverage our global assets, and also benefit more fully from the investments we are making today for future profitable growth. our one ford plan will continue to be our guide as we address head-on the diverse challenges and opportunities for our industry and our business worldwide. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors; decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products; market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states; an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events; economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors); single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure; substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change;" the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts); adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets; cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and product recalls nature of estimates required. we accrue the estimated cost of basic warranty coverages for each vehicle at the time of sale. we establish estimates using historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. where little or no claims experience exists, we rely on historical averages. see note 31 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding costs for warranty actions. separately, we also accrue at the time of sale for potential product recalls based on historical experience. product recalls are distinguishable from warranty coverages in that the actions may extend beyond basic warranty coverage periods. assumptions and approach used. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. pensions nature of estimates required. the estimation of our pension obligations, costs, and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience. these assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. expected long-term rate of return on assets. the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. assumptions are not changed unless structural trends in the underlying economy are identified, our asset strategy changes, or there are significant changes in other inputs. salary growth. the salary growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. the expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. amounts are recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 11 years for the major u.s. plans). in 2012, the u.s. actual return on assets was 14.2%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 7.5%. the year-end 2012 weighted average discount rates for the u.s. and non-u.s. plans decreased by 80 basis points and 92 basis points, respectively. these differences resulted in unamortized losses of about $6 billion. unamortized gains and losses are amortized only to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value of assets or the projected benefit obligation of the respective plan. for the major u.s. plans, unamortized losses exceed this threshold and recognition is continuing in 2013. see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2012 pension funded status and 2013 expense are affected by year-end 2012 assumptions. these sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. they also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. the effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in factors which generally have the largest impact on pension expense and obligation is shown below (in millions): percentage increase/(decrease) in: point 2013 expense december 31, 2012 obligation assumption change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate +/- 1.0 pt. $(300)/360 $(300)/350 $(5,200)/6,400 $(4,000)/4,700 expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 1.0 (390)/390 (210)/210 other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with opeb, primarily retiree health care and life insurance, requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. health care cost trends. our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. salary growth. salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual experience, our outlook, and assumed inflation. retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for u.s. plans at december 31, 2012 was 3.8%, compared with 4.6% at december 31, 2011, resulting in an unamortized loss of $410 million. this amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 12 years). see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding opeb costs and assumptions. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. the effect on u.s. and canadian plans of a one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would be a (decrease)/increase in the postretirement health care benefit expense for 2013 of approximately $(40) million/$50 million, and in the year-end 2012 obligation of approximately $(780) million/$940 million. income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the law, regulations and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $1.9 billion is required, primarily for deferred tax assets related to our ford south america operations, as well as various u.s. state and local net operating losses. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $20.8 billion of deferred tax assets. within this amount is $1.4 billion of net deferred tax assets related to our european operations. we have assessed recoverability of these assets, and concluded that no valuation allowance is required. we will continue to monitor recoverability as we progress our european transformation plan. changes in our judgment regarding our ability to recover our deferred tax assets would be reflected in our tax provision in the period in which the change occurred. we expect that continued delivery of our one ford plan could lead to the reduction in the overall level of valuation allowance related to u.s state and local net operating losses in the foreseeable future. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 24 of the notes to the financial statements. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses is ford credit's estimate of the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the balance sheet. consistent with its normal practices and policies, ford credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer segment. the retail installment and lease portfolio is evaluated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit's present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from models may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio, and an element of the allowance for credit losses is established for the imprecision inherent in loan loss models. reasons for imprecision include changes in economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions used. ford credit makes projections of two key assumptions: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount of money a customer owes ford credit when ford credit charges off the finance contract and the amount ford credit receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. ford credit uses these assumptions to assist it in estimating its allowance for credit losses. see note 9 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln retail and lease portfolio (in millions): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage point change december 31, 2012 allowance for credit losses 2012 expense repossession ratios (a) +/- 0.1 pt. $20/$(20) $20/$(20) loss severity +/- 1.0 5/(5) 5/(5) __________ (a) reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. non-consumer segment. we estimate an allowance using an ltr model for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. the non-consumer portfolio is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of collateral, and the financial status of the dealer). the loans are analyzed to determine if individual loans are impaired, and an allowance is estimated for the expected loss of these loans. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the provision for credit and insurance losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet, in each case under the financial services sector. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. these vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for ford credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the automotive sector. we monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. for retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. ford credit's north america operating lease activity was as follows for each of the last three years (in thousands, except percentages): 2012 2011 2010 vehicle return volume 76 144 281 return rate 60% 59% 69% for rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles have been returned to us. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in our portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a customer. at the time we purchase a lease, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. we 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) estimate the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, historical return volumes for our leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, our marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. for retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 8 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for our u.s. ford and lincoln retail and lease portfolio is as follows: increase/(decrease) assumption percentage change december 31, 2012 accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases 2013 expense future auction values +/- 1.0 $47/$(47) $12/$(12) return volumes +/- 1.0 3/(3) 1/(1) the impact of the increased accumulated supplemental depreciation in 2012 would be charged to expense in the 2013 - 2016 periods. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases are reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in depreciation , in each case under the financial services sector. automotive sector long-lived asset impairment testing nature of estimates required - long-lived assets. long-lived asset groups are tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. events that trigger a test for recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and expenses, significant underperformance relative to historical and projected future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic trends. when a triggering event occurs, a test for recoverability is performed, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset group. if the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the asset group's fair value is measured relying primarily on a discounted cash flow methodology. an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. a test for recoverability also is performed when management has committed to a plan to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset group and the plan is expected to be completed within a year. when an impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over its remaining useful life. restoration of a previously recognized long-lived asset impairment loss is not allowed. assumptions and approach used. we measure the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold to a third party), when available. when market prices are not available, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit or asset group using the income approach and/or the market approach. the income approach uses cash flow projections. inherent in our development of cash flow projections are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our operating results, business plan forecasts, expected growth rates, and cost of capital, similar to those a market participant would use to assess fair value. we also make certain assumptions about future economic conditions and other data. many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates may change in future periods. changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the fair value measurement of a reporting unit or asset group, and therefore can affect the test results. the following are key assumptions we use in making cash flow projections: business projections . we make assumptions about the demand for our products in the marketplace. these assumptions drive our planning assumptions for volume, mix, and pricing. we also make assumptions about our 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) cost levels (e.g., capacity utilization, cost performance, etc.). these projections are derived using our internal business plan forecasts that are updated at least annually and reviewed by our board of directors. long-term growth rate . a growth rate is used to calculate the terminal value of the business, and is added to the present value of the debt-free interim cash flows. the growth rate is the expected rate at which a business unit's earnings stream is projected to grow beyond the planning period. discount rate. when measuring possible impairment, future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that we anticipate a potential market participant would use. weighted-average cost of capital is an estimate of the overall risk-adjusted after-tax rate of return required by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. economic projections. assumptions regarding general economic conditions are included in and affect our assumptions regarding industry sales and pricing estimates for our vehicles. these macro-economic assumptions include, but are not limited to, industry sales volumes, inflation, interest rates, prices of raw materials (i.e., commodities), and foreign currency exchange rates. the market approach is another method for measuring the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group. this approach relies on the market value (i.e., market capitalization) of companies that are engaged in the same or similar line of business. during the third quarter of 2012, operating profits and cash flow from operations outside of north america remained under pressure. in particular, industry sales volume for the markets we track in europe declined significantly in recent years with only modest improvement expected by mid-decade, suggesting that current changes in the european business environment are more structural than cyclical in nature. against this backdrop, we determined that it was appropriate to test for impairment the long-lived assets of our ford europe segment. using our economic and business projections, including an assumption of an 8% operating margin for ford europe over the longer term, we determined that the carrying value of our ford europe long-lived asset group at september 30, 2012 did not exceed fair value. our long-term economic and business projections did not change during the fourth quarter of 2012. if in future quarters our economic or business projections were to change as a result of our plans or changes in the business environment, we would undertake additional testing as appropriate which could result in an impairment of long-lived assets. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted for information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. "purchase obligations" are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2012 (in millions): payments due by period 2013 2014 - 2015 2016 - 2017 2018 and thereafter total automotive sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) $ 893 $ 2,576 $ 2,307 $ 8,216 $ 13,992 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 589 1,113 990 6,872 9,564 capital leases 9 11 5 4 29 pension funding (d) 458 774 426 1,658 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,873 1,668 880 936 5,357 operating leases 217 333 172 172 894 total automotive sector 4,039 6,475 4,780 16,200 31,494 financial services sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) 19,630 30,284 14,261 8,222 72,397 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 2,621 3,468 1,717 1,762 9,568 capital leases 1 2 3 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 29 4 3 1 37 operating leases 52 75 53 24 204 total financial services sector 22,333 33,833 16,034 10,009 82,209 total company $ 26,372 $ 40,308 $ 20,814 $ 26,209 $ 113,703 __________ (a) amount includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $902 million for the automotive sector and $19,631 million for the financial services sector for the current portion of long-term debt. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion. (b) automotive sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(249) million. financial services sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(134) million and adjustments of $791 million related to designated fair value hedges of the debt. (c) excludes amortization of debt discounts/premiums. (d) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. plans. see note 16 for further information regarding our expected 2013 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2012 of $1.5 billion (see note 24 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 8, 16, and 17, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 77 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ("grmc"). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. we maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7 our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through a combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). derivative positions, when available, are used to hedge underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and, in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 78 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2012 was a liability of $268 million compared to a liability of $236 million as of december 31, 2011 . the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would be about $2 billion at december 31, 2012 compared with a decrease of about $1.7 billion as of december 31, 2011 . the increase in potential market risk from the end of last year primarily results from an increase in the amount of foreign currencies hedged during 2012. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). steel and resins are two of our largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). the net fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2012 was a liability of $101 million (which reflects the cumulative mark to market net loss on our hedging contracts for full year 2012), compared to a liability of $370 million as of december 31, 2011 . the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be about $103 million at december 31, 2012 , compared with a decrease of about $203 million at december 31, 2011 . the decrease in potential market risk from the end of last year primarily results from a decrease in the amount of commodities hedged during 2012 with forward contracts (partially offset by an increase in the amount of commodities hedged with option contracts). in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2012 , we had $24.3 billion in our automotive investment portfolios, compared to $22.9 billion at december 31, 2011 . we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $185 million. this compares to $95 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2011 . while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk. counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities. the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties and for longer-dated exposures. our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. 79 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. for additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. ford credit market risk overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk - the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; credit risk - the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk - the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and liquidity risk - the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit's overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks. credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are discussed above in item 7. a discussion of ford credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. interest rate risk . ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that its assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured debt. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, ford credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of their assets, in most instances with maturities up to ten years. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance. ford credit uses re-pricing gap analysis and economic value sensitivity analysis to evaluate potential long term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates, across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. 80 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates) (a) december 31, 2012 $ 77 $ (77 ) december 31, 2011 $ 60 $ (60 ) _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. ford credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table above. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros and pound sterling. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables: as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure relating to changes in currency exchange rates is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments as of december 31, 2012 was an asset of $856 million, compared to an asset of $1.1 billion as of december 31, 2011 . for additional information regarding our financial services sector derivatives, see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements.risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on both ford and the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. u.s. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding to 15.9 million units in 2013. for the 19 markets we tracked in europe, automotive industry sales volume declined steadily from 18 million units in 2007 to 13.8 million units in 2013. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in our asia pacific region and our middle east and africa region, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly-developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. in addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, when gasoline prices in the united states spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles. we estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, as well as a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2014 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 23 million units in 2013. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the middle east or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. although confidence is improving, residual concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ( euro area countries ) and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario or the perception that such a development is imminent could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while the u.s. federal government budget deficit has fallen since 2010, there is risk associated with the high level of federal government debt and the sustainability of the nation's budget. further government action will be necessary to put the federal government budget on a stable and sustainable path. the potential for disruptions associated with an unsustainable federal budget is a risk to both consumers and businesses. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and a four-year agreement with the canadian auto workers union in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 14 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) our qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate a qualified underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our qualified u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). at december 31, 2013 we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. our shareholders approved the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2013. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. in addition, the introduction of new and innovative features and technology to our vehicles could increase the risk of defects or customer dissatisfaction. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions also could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products . increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. 20 item 1a. risk factors (continued) in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business ( item 1 ) above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. in brazil, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for discussion of tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 21 item 1a. risk factors (continued) cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious outsiders using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses. an incident might not be detected in time to prevent a breach of these systems. such incident could harm our reputation and subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our credit agreement dated december 15, 2006, as amended and restated on november 24, 2009 and as further amended ( credit agreement ), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $10.7 billion until the facilities thereunder terminate in 2017. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. this process drives greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such institutions with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. 22 item 1a. risk factors (continued) new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer financial protection act ( act ) in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer finance protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. for example, in march 2013, the cfpb issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes ford credit, take steps to monitor and/or impose controls over dealer discretionary pricing. in addition, the act provides that a non-bank financial company could be designated a systemically important financial institution by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) insured deposits. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the fdic may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we currently have approximately 24,400 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage and additional service actions. we currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. in compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 29 of the notes to the financial statements. 4 item 1. business (continued) industry sales volume industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe. the following chart shows industry sales volume for the last five years for certain key markets in each region, and for the total we track within each of our north america, south america, europe, and asia pacific africa regions (in millions of units): industry sales volume (a) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 united states 15.9 14.8 13.0 11.8 10.6 canada 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 mexico 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 north america 18.8 17.5 15.5 14.2 12.9 brazil 3.8 3.8 3.6 3.5 3.1 argentina 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.5 south america (b) 5.6 5.6 5.4 5.0 4.2 britain 2.6 2.3 2.2 2.3 2.2 germany 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.2 4.0 europe (c) 13.7 14.0 15.3 15.3 15.9 turkey 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.6 russia 2.8 3.0 2.7 2.0 1.5 china 22.2 19.0 18.5 18.2 14.0 india 3.3 3.6 3.3 3.1 2.3 australia 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.9 south africa 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 asean (d) 2.8 2.8 2.0 1.9 1.3 asia pacific africa (e) 35.9 32.8 30.0 30.0 23.9 ______________ (a) throughout this report, industry sales volume and wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks. (b) south america industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the six markets we track in the region (i.e., argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela). (c) europe industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for the 19 markets we track (i.e., austria, belgium, britain, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, spain, sweden, and switzerland); sales of ford brand vehicles in turkey and russia by our unconsolidated affiliates ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) and ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( fordsollers ), respectively, contribute to europe's wholesale unit volumes, but are not reflected in industry sales volume or market share for the region. (d) asean includes indonesia, philippines, thailand, and vietnam. (e) asia pacific africa industry sales volume and market share are based, in part, on estimated vehicle sales for the 11 markets we track (i.e., australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand, and vietnam). 5 item 1. business (continued) north america the following tables show our wholesales and share by market in north america: wholesales (a) (b) (in thousands) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 united states 2,608 2,302 2,224 1,947 1,563 canada 283 281 273 278 223 mexico 91 83 88 88 80 north america 3,088 2,784 2,686 2,413 1,927 ______________ (a) throughout this report, wholesale unit volumes include all ford badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers and units distributed for other manufacturers, and jmc brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ). revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, and jmc brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliate) are not included in our revenue. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes. (b) throughout this report, regional wholesale unit volumes generally include direct exports to dealerships in export markets outside the region. market share (a) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 united states 15.7 % 15.2 % 16.5 % 16.4 % 15.3 % canada 15.9 16.1 17.1 16.9 15.2 mexico 8.0 8.2 9.4 10.5 11.8 ______________ (a) throughout this report, market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market or region (as opposed to wholesale unit volumes reflecting sales directly by us to our customers, generally our dealers). united states. the competitive environment in the united states remains intense. in 2013, our market share was up 0.5 percentage points to 15.7% of the industry. many of the import brand automakers have plans to increase production capacity in north america in the near-term, as competitive pressures mount. the small car segment has increased its share from 14% in 2004 to approximately 20% in 2013. we expect small cars to plateau, with a slower rate of growth going forward. overall, small cars were up 5% in 2013, relative to an industry that was up 7%. the mid-size car segment grew at just 1% in 2013, relative to an industry that was up 7%. the mid-size car segment represented about 16% of the overall industry. the segment has been stable over the past decade, with the segment ranging from a low of 14% to a high of 17% of the industry. the all-new fusion was a success for us in 2013 as we sold 295,280 vehicles, with sales increasing 22% compared with 2012. the small car-based utility segment grew 16% in 2013, more than twice the rate of the overall industry. the small utility segment now represents 14% of the u.s. auto industry, its highest percent of industry ever. we expect the small utility segment will continue to grow and out-pace the overall industry for a number of years. this is due to the appeal of the segment with the growing number of baby-boomers crossing into empty nester status. our escape small utility produced another record sales year in 2013, with 295,993 vehicles sold a 13 percent increase over 2012. in 2013, ford was the number-one selling brand of utilities in america for the third straight year. the full-size pickup segment represented 12% of the overall industry in 2013, an increase from 11.5% in 2012. given continued improvements in new home construction and the overall average age of the truck fleet of approximately 11 years, we believe the segment can continue to support growth in the short to medium-term. our f-series sales totaled 763,402 vehicles in 2013. this represents an 18% increase over 2012 and our 37 th year as america's best-selling pickup and our 32 nd straight year as america's best-selling vehicle (car, truck, or utility). f-series market share was 40% of the full-size pickup segment in 2013, which represented our best share of the segment since 2000. our strong u.s. vehicle sales in 2013 reflected our balanced portfolio of fuel-efficient vehicles, as our passenger cars, utilities, and trucks each reported gains last year. cars were up 10%, utilities posted a 9% gain, and trucks expanded 13%. retail sales across the country were up 14% in 2013. our strongest retail sales growth is coming from areas where historically our sales have been lower relative to our traditionally strong great lakes and central regions of the country. 6 item 1. business (continued) we posted our strongest retail sales growth of 21% year-over-year in the west, and had retail sales growth of 17% in the south east. fleet sales include sales to commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments. in 2013, fleet sales were 28% of our total sales, compared with 30% in 2012. the majority of the fleet sales were with commercial and government customers, which are more profitable than daily rentals. in 2013, our daily rental sales were 11% of total sales, down from 12% in 2012. canada. industry sales volume in canada grew 4% in 2013. within that total, car sales decreased by 1.7 percentage points to 44% of overall industry sales volume, utilities increased by 1.3 percentage points to 35% of overall industry sales volume, and truck sales increased by 0.4 percentage points to 21% of industry sales volume. our sales performance in the market earned ford the sales leadership title in canada for the fourth year in a row. in 2013, ford earned segment leadership with fusion, mustang, escape, explorer, f-150, and super duty. f-series maintained truck leadership for the 48 th straight year, achieving record sales of more than 122,000 units. mexico. industry sales volume in mexico grew 7% during 2013. the favorable sales performance of our ikon and fiesta in the b-car segment, along with favorable performance of the ecosport and escape, impacted our market share. the main contributors to market share decline were the discontinuation of courier and delays in the introduction of the ranger. south america we track industry sales and market share for six markets in south america argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela. brazil and argentina are our highest-volume south american markets. in particular, brazil's economy and demographics, with growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates, and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002. these favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in brazil. the following tables show our wholesales and market share in the largest markets and in total: wholesales (in thousands) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 brazil 364 336 346 358 336 argentina 118 107 105 85 66 south america 538 498 506 489 443 market share 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 brazil 9.4 % 9.1 % 9.5 % 10.4 % 10.3 % argentina 12.6 12.3 12.9 12.4 13.3 south america 9.3 9.0 9.3 9.8 10.2 the competition in brazil continues to intensify, as a number of automotive manufacturers bring substantial capacity increases to the market. the intensifying competitive environment is putting pressure on industry net pricing. in 2013, we continued to leverage our one ford plan by introducing global products (e.g., focus), with additional global products to come that will continue to benefit us in this market. the competitive environment and a volatile economic outlook with new trade barriers and currency risks across the region, especially in venezuela and argentina, may limit our growth in certain countries. europe the automotive industry in europe is intensely competitive, and expected to intensify further as japanese and korean manufacturers increase production capacity in the region and manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., bmw, mercedes-benz and audi) continue to broaden product offerings. the nearly two percent decline in industry sales volume for the traditional 19 markets we tracked in europe in 2013 compared with 2012 largely reflects the impact of the eurozone crisis, which largely affected the first half of 2013 and showed recovery in the second half of the year. 7 item 1. business (continued) the following tables show our wholesales and market share in europe: wholesales (a) (in thousands) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 europe 1,360 1,353 1,602 1,573 1,568 ______________ (a) includes wholesales in turkey and russia from our unconsolidated affiliates ford otosan and fordsollers. market share 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 europe 7.8 % 7.9 % 8.3 % 8.4 % 9.1 % in 2013, ford was again the second best-selling car brand in the traditional 19 markets we tracked in europe. our continued market strength reflects the strong momentum of our new or refreshed vehicles, including the b-max, fiesta, kuga, tourneo custom, and transit custom. within the 19 markets, britain and germany are our highest-volume markets. any change in the british or german market has a significant effect on the results of europe. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for britain and germany (which are included within the traditional 19 markets data above): wholesales (in thousands) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 britain 379 337 342 341 354 germany 227 208 250 216 286 market share 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 britain 14.7 % 14.9 % 15.0 % 15.0 % 16.7 % germany 6.9 6.8 7.4 6.9 7.6 britain. industry in britain began to decline in 2008 with the global financial crisis, and between 2009 and 2012 remained in the 2.2 million 2.3 million unit range (compared with 2.8 million units in 2007). in 2013, industry sales volume, at 2.6 million, increased 11% compared with 2012, reflecting a higher demand from private customers. the retail channel industry increased 16% in 2013 compared with 2012. our market share decreased slightly in 2013 compared with 2012, reflecting our reduced participation in low-margin business such as daily rental and demonstration vehicles. we continued to be the market share leader in britain for total, passenger, and commercial vehicles. germany. with 3.3 million new vehicle registrations in 2013, germany's industry sales volume declined 4% compared with the prior year, reflecting declines in both retail and fleet industry retail industry decreased 5% and fleet 6%. germany remains the largest vehicle market in the european union. despite our reduced participation in low-margin business such as daily rental and demonstration vehicles, our market share in 2013 increased compared with 2012, driven by a strong share of the retail segment and growth in commercial vehicles. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for turkey and russia: wholesales (in thousands) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 turkey 114 108 140 130 79 russia 105 134 124 93 74 market share 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 turkey 12.8 % 13.8 % 15.8 % 15.8 % 15.1 % russia 3.8 4.3 4.3 4.6 5.5 8 item 1. business (continued) turkey. industry growth slowed in 2008 as a result of the global financial crisis. beginning in 2009, industry vehicle sales accelerated due to government incentives put in place, with significant continuous increase in 2010 and 2011. in 2012, industry decreased by about 10% compared with the prior year, driven by increased taxes. industry in 2013, at 0.9 million units, increased 9% compared with the prior year reflecting the availability of favorable automotive financing and a competitive pricing environment that more than offset the euro/turkish lira exchange increase. our market share declined compared with prior year reflecting competitive market pressures and a segment shift from commercial vehicles to cars, although ford remains the leading automotive company for the 12 th consecutive year. russia. following a 50% contraction in 2009 as a result of the impact of the global financial crisis reaching russia, industry sales volume has returned almost to pre-crisis levels, with industry sales volume of 2.8 million units in 2013. russia is the second-largest market for vehicle sales in europe, and is expected to become the largest over the next several years. our market share decline was largely driven by industry growth in suv segments, where we are not yet fully participating and capacity constraints that prevented us from following the growth. asia pacific africa asia pacific africa industry sales and market share data reflect our 11 major markets in the region. of the markets we track in this region, asean, australia, china, india, and south africa are our principal markets. small cars account for 57% of asia pacific africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government policy. we anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars. the highly successful launches of our all-new kuga and ecosport small utilities in 2013 once again demonstrate our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments in the region. the following tables show our wholesales and market share for key markets and in total: wholesales (in thousands) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 china 936 627 519 483 345 india 80 87 96 84 30 australia 85 94 83 104 92 south africa 68 49 49 45 38 asean 85 95 74 51 38 asia pacific africa 1,344 1,033 901 838 604 market share 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 china 4.1 % 3.2 % 2.7 % 2.5 % 2.5 % india 2.5 2.4 2.9 2.6 1.3 australia 7.7 8.1 9.0 9.2 10.3 south africa 10.3 7.8 8.4 7.7 7.6 asean 2.9 2.8 3.2 1.9 2.2 asia pacific africa 3.5 2.8 2.8 2.5 2.3 ______________ (a) market share data include ford and local-brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates, including our chinese joint venture jmc. china and india are burgeoning markets that are expected to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in the next ten years, driving new economic growth in the region. accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region. we and our unconsolidated joint venture affiliates opened two new plants in the region in 2013, and currently are building six additional plants in the region four in china and two in india all as part of our plan to reach production capacity of 2.7 million vehicles by mid-decade. these new state-of-the-art highly-flexible manufacturing facilities will help us reach the goal of increasing worldwide sales to about 8 million vehicles per year by mid-decade. 9 item 1. business (continued) financial services sector ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford motor credit company llc ( ford credit ) offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from: payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases, which includes interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and leases in the consumer portfolio relate to products offered to individuals and to businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. the financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership facilities, for working capital, for the purchase of dealership real estate, and for other dealer vehicle program financing. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers, receivables from ford related loans, and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operation is managed through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany. approximately 65% of fce's finance receivables and operating leases are from fce's customers and ford dealers in the united kingdom and germany; approximately 18% are from fce's customers and ford dealers in italy, france, and spain; and approximately 1% are from fce's customers and ford dealers in greece, ireland, and portugal. fce also provides financing to dealerships in countries where typically we have no established local presence. ford credit's financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the united states and new ford vehicles sold by dealers in europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe were: united states years ended december 31, financing share 2013 2012 2011 retail installment and lease 40 % 38 % 36 % wholesale 77 78 80 europe financing share retail installment and lease 34 % 32 % 29 % wholesale 98 98 99 see item 7 and notes 6, 7, and 8 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. in november 2008, we entered into an amended and restated support agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if its managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. in addition, ford credit has an agreement to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 10 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements - federal emissions standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. the current ( tier 2 ) emissions regulations promulgated by the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) set standards for cars and light trucks. tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). in 2013, the epa proposed new tier 3 regulations that contain more stringent motor vehicle emissions standards for future model years, as well as more stringent fuel quality standards. the tier 3 regulations are expected to be finalized in 2014. there is some concern that epa may promulgate the tier 3 vehicle emissions standards without finalizing the accompanying fuel quality standards. this would impose additional compliance risks on the auto industry, since high-quality fuels are necessary to enable automobiles to meet increasingly stringent emissions standards. in 2011, epa issued waivers under the clean air act allowing the distribution and sale of gasoline containing 15% ethanol ( e15 fuel) for use in 2001 model year and later gasoline-powered vehicles. virtually all of the vehicles affected by the waivers were designed to accommodate gasoline containing a maximum ethanol content of 10%. there are concerns that extensive use of e15 in these past model-year vehicles may lead to fuel system problems and other issues. various petitioners, including the automotive industry, sought judicial review of the epa waivers, but the federal courts have allowed the waivers to stand. as a result, ford and other automotive manufacturers may face increased warranty claims and customer complaints, as well as the possibility of consumer litigation, due to the introduction of e15 into the market. u.s. requirements - california and other state emissions standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california may seek a waiver from epa to establish unique vehicle emissions control standards; each new or modified proposal requires a new waiver of preemption from epa. california has received a waiver from epa to establish its own unique emissions control standards for certain regulated pollutants. new vehicles and engines sold in california must be certified to carb's low-emission vehicle ( lev ii ) emissions standards. carb's new lev iii program takes effect with the 2015 model year and includes more stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions requirements for light and medium duty vehicles the clean air act also permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt california's motor vehicle emissions standards . in addition to california, thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards for current and/or future model years. the adoption of california standards by other states presents planning and distribution challenges for manufacturers, because of the need to manage fleet average emissions standards on a state-by-state basis. the california program includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ) that emit no regulated pollutants. the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles, particularly for the 2018 - 2025 model years. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with the 2018 - 2025 model year zev rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce . we also are concerned about enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. carb conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming zev requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance. ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that zev requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome. 11 item 1. business (continued) european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new stage v emissions standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in january 2011; stage vi requirements will apply from september 2014, with a second phase beginning in september 2017. stage v particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and stage vi further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen. this will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. these technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles. the additional requirements for the second phase of stage vi will further increase stringency of particle emissions for direct injection gasoline vehicles, and apply more demanding on-board diagnostic thresholds for all vehicles. there are some additional test procedures still in development for application as part of the second phase of stage vi. vehicles equipped with selective catalytic reduction ( scr ) systems require a driver inducement and warning system for maintenance or repair. the stage v/vi emission legislation also mandated internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related), and provision of information to diagnostic tool manufacturers. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emissions regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china plans to adopt the most recent european standards, to be implemented starting from 2013 in large cities. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. although these countries have adopted regulations based un-ece or u.s. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. tier 2 requirements discussed above; a new examination of mobile source emissions has commenced, and it is expected that any new regulation will align standards with the current u.s. regulations. furthermore, not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. japan has unique standards and test procedures, which may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the japanese market. in south america, brazil, argentina, and chile have introduced more stringent emissions standards. brazil approved european stage v emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; more stringent light vehicle limits come into effect starting in 2012. argentina also will apply stage v standards beginning in 2015 (for new vehicle homologations) and 2017 (for new vehicle registrations). chile approved a plan to introduce more stringent emission standards (i.e., european stage iv and v or corresponding u.s. emissions standards) nationwide for light and medium duty vehicles, and progressive alignment with the metropolitan region (i.e., the capital city santiago and surrounding area) by september 2014. heavy duty vehicles will be required to meet stage v (or corresponding u.s. emissions standards) by october 2014. vehicle fuel economy in addition to our own push for class-leading fuel efficiency for our vehicle lines, we also face ever-increasing expectations from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of reasons including energy security and reduced ghg emissions. our ability to comply with a given set of fuel economy standards (including ghg emissions standards, which are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards), and the impact of such standards on our financial results, depends on a variety of factors, including: 1) prevailing economic conditions, including fluctuations in fuel prices; 2) alignment of standards with actual consumer demand for vehicles; and 3) adequate lead time to make necessary product changes. if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large and/or high-performance, while regulatory standards require production of vehicles that are smaller and/or more economical, the mismatch of supply and demand would have an adverse effect on both regulatory compliance and our profitability. moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average ghg emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the necessary technology can be developed). 12 item 1. business (continued) u.s. requirements - light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). a manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively. a 2007 u.s. supreme court decision paved the way for epa to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions under the clean air act. in 2010, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations establishing the one national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012 2016 model years. the 2012 2016 federal ghg and fuel economy standards require new light duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 miles per gallon ( mpg ) by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the cafe program. we believe that we will be able to comply with the harmonized federal cafe/ghg standards for the 2012 2016 model years, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy that we built into our cycle plan, and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms. the 2012 2016 model year one national program rules currently are being challenged in federal court by entities concerned about the ramifications of these rules on stationary source regulation. the automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of preventing adverse changes to the existing one national program regulations. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. the new rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and approximately 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year, assuming all of the co 2 emissions reductions are achieved through the deployment of fuel economy technology. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. epa's 2022 - 2025 ghg standards are final rules; in contrast, nhtsa's 2022 2025 cafe standards are conditional because, by statute, nhtsa may only set cafe standards for up to five model years at a time. each manufacturer's specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, epa will re-evaluate its standards for model years 2022 2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. in parallel, nhtsa will undertake a process to promulgate final cafe standards for those model years. as with the 2012 2016 rules, the 2017 2025 rules have been challenged in federal court by entities whose primary concern appears to be the ramifications of the vehicle rules on stationary source regulation. the automotive industry has intervened in the litigation with the goal of avoiding adverse changes to the one national program rules. the one national program standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to demand highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. we are particularly concerned about the feasibility of the 2022 2025 model year ghg and cafe standards. ford's ability to comply with the 2022 2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future. we intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards. if the agencies seek to impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or ghg standards in spite of unfavorable market conditions or inadequate technology development, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. certain states in the united states have asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions. in 2004, california promulgated state-specific motor vehicle ghg standards, and a number of other states later adopted california's rules. with the adoption of the federal one national program standards discussed above, california and the other states modified their rules to provide that compliance with the federal program satisfies compliance with the state requirements for the 2012 2025 model years. this enabled the auto industry to avoid a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. should california and other states ever renew their efforts to enforce state-specific motor vehicle ghg rules, this would impose significant costs on automotive manufacturers. among other concerns, compliance with state-specific motor vehicle ghg regulations would add significant complexity to our production and distribution processes because of the need to micromanage the mix of vehicles sold in individual states. in contrast, the one national program regulations allow us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales, eliminating the need to account for state-to-state sales variability . 13 item 1. business (continued) u.s. requirements - heavy duty vehicles. in 2011, epa and nhtsa promulgated final regulations imposing, for the first time, ghg and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating). in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. these standards will be challenging, but we believe we will be able to comply. epa and nhtsa are expected to issue a new round of standards for these vehicles covering the 2019 model year and beyond; as the standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. the 2014 2018 heavy duty ghg rules are being challenged in federal court by entities other than truck and engine manufacturers. remand or rejection by the court could have a substantial adverse impact on our future production and sale of heavy duty vehicles, depending on the court's specific order and agencies' response. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ( g/km ), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ( eco-innovations ), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. a penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from 5 to 95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 2018, and 95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden. further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. starting in 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. other non-eu european countries are likely to follow with similar regulations. for example, switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in july 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance. in separate legislation, complementary measures have been mandated (for example, tire-related and gearshift indicator requirements), and more mandates are expected. these include requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission, council and parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020; it is likely that other european countries, like switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions. this regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for so-called multi-stage vehicles (e.g., our transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, super-credits for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. to limit ghg emissions, the eu directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower global warming potential refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in january 2017. a refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole value chain. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. the standards track the new u.s. cafe standards for the 2011 model year and u.s. epa ghg regulations for the 2012 2016 model years. the canadian federal government now has published a draft regulation for light duty vehicles which maintains alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014 2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in february 2013. in december 2009, quebec also enacted province-specific regulations setting fleet average ghg standards for the 2010 2016 model years effective january 2010. now that the canadian federal regulation is in place, the quebec government has amended the quebec regulation to recognize equivalency with the federal standards; reporting of quebec fleet performance still is required. mexico also is in the process of adopting fuel economy/co 2 standards based on the u.s. one national program framework, to take effect in 2014. 14 item 1. business (continued) many asia pacific countries (such as australia, china, japan, india, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam) are also developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 and is preparing to promulgate more stringent 2020 targets, with incentives for early adoption. china has been developing stage iii and stage iv fuel economy targets for implementation for 2012 2015 and 2016 2020, respectively. all of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine. brazil also published a new automotive regime which requires participation in the fuel economy labeling program. it establishes a minimum absolute cafe value as a function of fleet corporate average mass for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction for customers. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved. a severe penalty system will apply to qualified manufacturers failing to meet fuel efficiency requirement for the 2013 2017 sales period. chile introduced requirements for fuel consumption and co 2 emissions levels of light duty vehicles to be posted at sales locations and in owner manuals beginning in february 2013. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced un-ece regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. these technologies have been implemented in europe with final regulation and implementing measures having become available in late 2011. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new recall requirements in asia pacific africa also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. in south america, stringent safety requirements are being introduced or proposed in ecuador and uruguay, influenced by latin ncap, which may be a driver for similar actions in other countries. 15 item 1. business (continued) employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in thousands): 2013 2012 automotive north america 84 80 south america 18 17 europe 50 46 asia pacific africa 23 22 financial services ford credit 6 6 total 181 171 the year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects consolidation of ford romania in europe, hiring in north america, asia pacific africa, and south america to support product-led growth initiatives, and hiring in north america and south america to support increased vehicle production. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). approximately 1.5% of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2011, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the uaw. the agreement covers approximately 46,000 employees, and maintains our progress on improving competitiveness in the united states. excluding profit-sharing, compensation-related terms including lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure are expected to increase u.s. hourly labor costs by less than 1% annually over the four-year contract period (based on a constant employment level). this increase has been offset by more flexible work rules that have increased manufacturing utilization and efficiency. in 2012, we negotiated collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, australia, brazil, britain, canada, france, germany, mexico, romania, taiwan, and turkey. in 2013, we negotiated collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with labor unions in argentina, brazil, france, germany, mexico, new zealand, russia, south africa, spain, taiwan, thailand, united kingdom, and venezuela. in 2014, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with labor unions in argentina, brazil, france, germany, italy, mexico, and thailand. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. engineering, research, and development expenses for 2013, 2012, and 2011 were $6.4 billion, $5.5 billion, and $5.3 billion, respectively. 16 item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on both ford and the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced automotive industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. u.s. automotive industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007 to 13.5 million units in 2008 and 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding to 15.9 million units in 2013. for the 19 markets we tracked in europe, automotive industry sales volume declined steadily from 18 million units in 2007 to 13.8 million units in 2013. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets, particularly in our asia pacific region and our middle east and africa region, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly-developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. in addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, when gasoline prices in the united states spiked to more than $4.00 per gallon in 2008 and the construction industry suddenly slowed, consumer preferences quickly and dramatically shifted away from larger, more profitable vehicles and into smaller vehicles. we estimate that shifting consumer preferences across all vehicle segments adversely impacted our automotive operating pre-tax earnings and cash flow in 2008 by about $1.3 billion. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large cars, utilities, and trucks that generally are more fuel efficient and contribute higher margins than in 2008, as well as a lower cost structure, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption - whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons - still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2014 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 23 million units in 2013. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism in the middle east or elsewhere have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. although confidence is improving, residual concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro currency ( euro area countries ) and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario or the perception that such a development is imminent could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. while the u.s. federal government budget deficit has fallen since 2010, there is risk associated with the high level of federal government debt and the sustainability of the nation's budget. further government action will be necessary to put the federal government budget on a stable and sustainable path. the potential for disruptions associated with an unsustainable federal budget is a risk to both consumers and businesses. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly-developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and a four-year agreement with the canadian auto workers union in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 14 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) our qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate a qualified underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our qualified u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). at december 31, 2013 we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. our shareholders approved the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2013. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. in addition, the introduction of new and innovative features and technology to our vehicles could increase the risk of defects or customer dissatisfaction. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions also could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products . increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. 20 item 1a. risk factors (continued) in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given timeframe, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business ( item 1 ) above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. in brazil, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for discussion of tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 21 item 1a. risk factors (continued) cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious outsiders using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses. an incident might not be detected in time to prevent a breach of these systems. such incident could harm our reputation and subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our credit agreement dated december 15, 2006, as amended and restated on november 24, 2009 and as further amended ( credit agreement ), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $10.7 billion until the facilities thereunder terminate in 2017. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. this process drives greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such institutions with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. 22 item 1a. risk factors (continued) new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer financial protection act ( act ) in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer finance protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. for example, in march 2013, the cfpb issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes ford credit, take steps to monitor and/or impose controls over dealer discretionary pricing. in addition, the act provides that a non-bank financial company could be designated a systemically important financial institution by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) insured deposits. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the fdic may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 23 item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 55% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 99% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. as in the united states, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. as of december 31, 2013, our automotive segments used eight regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 65 manufacturing plants as shown in the table below: segment plants north america (a) 32 south america 8 europe (b) 13 asia pacific africa 12 total (c) 65 ____________ (a) includes one plant owned by automotive components holdings, llc ( ach ). after ach has completed the transfer of the plant's primary business to the purchaser of the business in the fourth quarter of 2014, ach will close the plant. (b) includes our genk assembly plant that will close at the end of 2014 and omits two manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom that were closed during 2013. (c) not included are two manufacturing plants in india and one in brazil that are under construction. included in the number of plants shown above are plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive sector. as of december 31, 2013, the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns is as follows: aai a 50/50 joint venture with mazda that owns an assembly plant in flat rock, michigan. as of september 1, 2012, we acquired full management control of aai; in exchange, beginning on september 1, 2015 for a three-year period, we have granted mazda a put option to sell, and received a call option to purchase from mazda, the 50% equity interest in aai that is held by mazda (the option ). the option is exercisable at a price determined by a formula based on aai's december 31, 2012 balance sheet. we lease the flat rock assembly plant from aai and operate the plant to produce mustang and fusion vehicles. ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh also has local product development capability to modify component parts for local needs, and imports ford brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific africa region, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. 24 item 2. properties (continued) ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is owned by the vietnamese ministry of industry and trade)(25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of these joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales, the latter in both built-up and kit form, with export of certain products to markets outside the asia pacific africa region. aat produces the ford everest suv, and ford ranger and mazda bt-50 pickup trucks, as well as ford fiesta, mazda2, and mazda3 small cars. blue diamond parts, llc ( blue diamond parts ) a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar international corporation (formerly known as international truck and engine corporation) ( navistar ) (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond parts manages sourcing, merchandising, and distribution of certain service parts for trucks sold in north america. we will continue to collaborate on this joint venture. blue diamond truck, s. de r.l. de c.v. ( blue diamond truck ) a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond truck develops and manufactures medium-duty commercial trucks at its plant in escobedo, mexico and sells the vehicles to navistar and us for distribution. the blue diamond truck joint venture is scheduled to terminate at the end of february 2015. we will in-source production of f-650/750 trucks to our ohio assembly plant. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf currently operates two assembly plants in china, where it produces and distributes an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models. in 2013, to support growth in the region, caf completed construction of an engine plant in chongqing. caf is constructing two additional assembly plants in chongqing and hangzhou, and a transmission plant in chongqing. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces engines for ford and mazda vehicles manufactured in china. ford otosan a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also makes the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license from us. the joint venture owns two plants, a parts distribution depot, and a product development center in turkey, and is constructing a new research and development center in turkey. fordsollers a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc ( sollers ), to which we contributed our operations in russia, consisting primarily of a manufacturing plant, and access to our russian dealership network. sollers contributed two production facilities and supports the joint venture through its manufacturing capabilities, knowledge of the russian market, experience in distribution, and work with the russian supply base. in addition, the joint venture has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia. the joint venture has been approved to participate in russia's industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia. in addition to its three existing manufacturing facilities, fordsollers plans to launch an engine plant in russia in 2015. 25 item 2. properties (continued) getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with getrag international gmbh, a german company, to which we initially transferred our european manual transmission operations, including plants located in halewood, england; cologne, germany; and bordeaux, france. we subsequently transferred a plant in kechnec, slovakia to the joint venture. gft operates these four plants to produce, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit and volvo. we supply most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this joint venture, and the joint venture reimburses us for the full cost of the labor we supply. in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, our employees may be returned to us. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles the ford transit van, ford diesel engines, and non-ford vehicles for distribution in china and in other export markets. in 2013, jmc increased its capacity to 545,000 vehicles per year with its new plant in nanchang, for a total of two manufacturing facilities. jmc also plans to launch a new engine plant in 2015. tenedora nemak, s.a. de c.v. a joint venture between ford (6.75% partner) and a subsidiary of mexican conglomerate alfa s.a. de c.v. (93.25% partner). the joint venture supplies aluminum castings from its plants located in regions in which we do business. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 29 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicle lines of various model years. in many, no dollar amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. any damages we pay in a negotiated settlement or as the result of a verdict generally have been, on average, substantially less than the amounts originally claimed. based on our knowledge of the facts and circumstances asserted, our historical experience with matters of a similar nature, and our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing and the severity of any potential loss, we establish litigation accruals. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. 26 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. at this time, we have no individual environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000 to report. class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past ever have been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list below those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. medium/heavy truck sales procedure class action. this action pending in the ohio state court system alleges that ford breached its sales and service agreement with ford truck dealers by failing to publish to all ford dealers all price concessions that were approved for any dealer. the trial court certified a nationwide class consisting of all ford dealers who purchased from ford any 600-series or higher truck from 1987 to 1997, and granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on liability. during 2011, a jury awarded $4.5 million in damages to the named plaintiff dealer and the trial court applied the jury's findings with regard to the named plaintiff to all dealers in the class, entering a judgment of approximately $2 billion in damages. we appealed, and on may 3, 2012, the ohio court of appeals reversed the trial court's grant of summary judgment to plaintiffs, vacated the damages award, and remanded the matter for a new trial. the retrial in september 2013 resulted in a verdict in ford's favor. on february 7, 2014, the trial court granted plaintiffs' motion for a new trial, but the order will be stayed pending our appeal and we are confident that it will be reversed. 27 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) other matters apartheid litigation. we are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits seeking unspecified damages on behalf of south african citizens who suffered violence and oppression under south africa's apartheid regime. the lawsuits allege that the defendant companies aided and abetted the apartheid regime and its human rights violations. these cases, collectively referred to as in re south african apartheid litigation , were initially filed in 2002 and 2003, and are being handled together as coordinated multidistrict litigation in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. the district court dismissed these cases in 2004, but in 2007 the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit reversed and remanded the cases to the district court for further proceedings. amended complaints were filed during 2008; motions to dismiss were granted in part and denied in part, and defendants appealed. in august 2013, the u.s. court of appeals remanded the cases to the district court with instructions to dismiss, but the district court has requested additional briefing. brazilian tax matters. three brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority have levied substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. for each assessment, if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state or federal judicial court, which would likely require us to post significant collateral in order to proceed. our appeals with two states and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level, but in one state our administrative appeal was denied. we appealed that case to the judicial court, without having to post collateral, where we received a first level favorable decision. the state has appealed that decision and collateral may be required for a further appeal of that assessment if the decision is overturned. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) issued a ruling adverse to ford with respect to duty rates for some of our transit connect vehicles imported into the united states. cbp ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp (1) is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and (2) is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). a decision by cit may be appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit. if we prevail, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. if we do not prevail, cbp would recover the increased duties for prior imports, plus interest, and might assert a claim for penalties. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 28 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2014: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board sept. 2006 56 alan mulally (b) president and chief executive officer sept. 2006 68 mark fields chief operating officer dec. 2012 53 james d. farley, jr. executive vice president global marketing, sales and service and lincoln dec. 2012 51 john fleming executive vice president global manufacturing and labor affairs dec. 2009 63 joseph r. hinrichs executive vice president president, the americas dec. 2012 47 stephen t. odell executive vice president president, europe, middle east and africa dec. 2012 58 bob shanks executive vice president and chief financial officer apr. 2012 61 ray day group vice president communications mar. 2013 47 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services apr. 2008 48 bennie fowler group vice president quality and new model launch apr. 2008 57 david g. leitch group vice president and general counsel apr. 2005 53 raj nair group vice president global product development apr. 2012 49 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations jan. 2004 46 dave schoch group vice president president, asia pacific dec. 2012 62 bernard silverstone group vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. jan. 2013 58 nick smither group vice president chief information officer apr. 2008 55 hau thai-tang group vice president global purchasing aug. 2013 47 stuart rowley vice president and controller apr. 2012 46 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 29 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states, and on certain stock exchanges in belgium and france. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock, and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2012 and 2013: 2012 2013 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 13.05 $ 12.95 $ 10.66 $ 13.08 $ 14.30 $ 16.09 $ 17.77 $ 18.02 low 10.99 9.46 8.82 9.71 12.10 12.15 15.56 15.10 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.10 __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. as of february 7, 2014, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 143,770 holders of common stock and 39 holders of class b stock. as previously reported, we conducted a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program during 2013, which authorized repurchases of up to 13.3 million shares of our common stock to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation granted during 2013. during the fourth quarter, we repurchased shares of ford common stock as follows: period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly- announced plans or programs maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs october 1, 2013 through october 31, 2013 24,950 $ 17.26 2.9 million november 1, 2013 through november 30, 2013 2,870,000 16.99 2,870,000 december 1, 2013 through december 31, 2013 3,603 16.56 total/average 2,898,553 $ 16.99 2,870,000 __________ (a) in any given month, the difference between the total number of shares purchased and the number of shares purchased as part of the publicly-announced plan reflects shares that were acquired from our employees or directors related to certain exercises of stock options in accordance with our various compensation plans. as shown above, our anti-dilutive share repurchase program concluded in the fourth quarter of 2013. in total, pursuant to this program we repurchased 13.3 million shares of ford common stock at a cost of $213 million. for discussion of our outstanding convertible notes, convertible and exercisable into our common stock, see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. 30 item 6. selected financial data. on january 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard regarding consolidation of variable interest entities ( vies ). we have applied the standard retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and present prior-year financial statement data on a basis that is revised for the application of this standard. in addition, we have reclassified certain prior year amounts on our consolidated financial statements to conform to current year presentation. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 total company revenues $ 146,917 $ 133,559 $ 135,605 $ 128,122 $ 115,125 income/(loss) before income taxes $ 7,001 $ 7,720 $ 8,681 $ 7,149 $ 2,599 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (147 ) 2,056 (11,541 ) 592 (113 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 7,148 5,664 20,222 6,557 2,712 income/(loss) from discontinued operations 5 net income/(loss) 7,148 5,664 20,222 6,557 2,717 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (7 ) (1 ) 9 (4 ) net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 7,155 $ 5,665 $ 20,213 $ 6,561 $ 2,717 automotive sector revenues $ 139,369 $ 126,567 $ 128,168 $ 119,280 $ 103,868 income/(loss) before income taxes 5,329 6,010 6,250 4,146 785 financial services sector revenues $ 7,548 $ 6,992 $ 7,437 $ 8,842 $ 11,257 income/(loss) before income taxes 1,672 1,710 2,431 3,003 1,814 amounts per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,935 3,815 3,793 3,449 2,992 basic income/(loss) $ 1.82 $ 1.48 $ 5.33 $ 1.90 $ 0.91 diluted income/(loss) 1.76 1.42 4.94 1.66 0.86 cash dividends declared 0.40 0.15 0.05 common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high 18.02 13.08 18.97 17.42 10.37 low 12.10 8.82 9.05 9.75 1.50 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 90,326 $ 86,458 $ 78,786 $ 64,606 $ 79,118 financial services sector 115,057 105,012 100,612 102,407 118,040 intersector elimination (1,631 ) (252 ) (1,112 ) (2,083 ) (3,224 ) total assets $ 203,752 $ 191,218 $ 178,286 $ 164,930 $ 193,934 debt automotive sector $ 15,683 $ 14,256 $ 13,094 $ 19,077 $ 33,610 financial services sector 99,005 90,802 86,595 85,112 98,671 intersector elimination (a) (201 ) (201 ) (646 ) total debt $ 114,688 $ 105,058 $ 99,488 $ 103,988 $ 131,635 total equity/(deficit) $ 26,416 $ 15,989 $ 15,071 $ (642 ) $ (7,782 ) __________ (a) debt related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview revenue our automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories; we generally treat sales and marketing incentives as a reduction to revenue. revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. when we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. in addition, revenue for finished vehicles we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: material excluding commodity costs - primarily reflecting the change in cost of purchased parts used in the assembly of our vehicles. commodity costs - reflecting the change in cost for raw materials (such as steel, aluminum, and resins) used in the manufacture of our products. structural costs - reflecting the change in costs that generally do not have a directly proportionate relationship to our production volumes, such as labor costs, including pension and health care; other costs related to the development and manufacture of our vehicles; depreciation and amortization; and advertising and sales promotion costs. warranty and other costs - reflecting the change in cost related to warranty coverage, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions, as well as the change in freight and other costs related to the distribution of our vehicles and support for the sale and distribution of parts and accessories. while material (including commodity), freight, and warranty costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2013 was $135.2 billion. material costs (including commodity costs) make up the largest portion of our automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2013 about two-thirds of the total amount. of the remaining balance of our automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve has begun reducing the pace of financial asset purchases, and the resulting shifts in capital flows have contributed to downward pressure on several emerging market currencies. in some cases that pressure is aggravated by high inflation, unstable policy environments, or both. additionally, the yen has depreciated significantly over the last year as a result of policy changes by the japanese government and bank of japan. this adds significant potential downward pressure on vehicle pricing across many markets globally. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. in some other markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 107 million units exceeded global production by about 23 million units in 2013. in north america and europe, the two regions where the majority of industry revenue and profits are earned, excess capacity as a percent of production in 2013 was an estimated 7% and 34%, respectively. in china, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 31% of production in 2013, as manufacturers competed to capitalize on china's future market potential. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 25 million units per year during the period from 2014 to 2018. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity (located outside of the region) directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. although there has been a modest increase in new vehicle pricing in the u.s. market during 2013, it seems likely that over the long term intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price increases. despite weak demand conditions, light sweet crude oil prices increased from an average of $79 per barrel in 2010 to $95 per barrel in 2011, before declining slightly to about $94 per barrel in late 2012. in 2013, oil prices rose slightly to $98 per barrel. commodity prices have declined recently, but over the longer term prices are likely to trend higher given global demand growth. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 130% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. as we execute our one ford plan, we are working to create best-in-class vehicles on global platforms that contribute higher margins, and offering a more balanced portfolio of vehicles with which we aim to be among the leaders in fuel efficiency in every segment in which we compete. increasing sales of smaller vehicles . like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india, and china, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets. the largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., sub-b, b, and c segments). to increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are significantly increasing our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures. in addition, we expect that increased demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles will continue in the mature markets of north america and europe and, consequently, we have seen and expect in the future strong demand in those markets for our small car offerings (including our new ford fiesta and focus models that are based on global platforms). although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles. trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade. while we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. in asia pacific africa, for example, the recent dramatic depreciation of the yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers. over a period of time, the emerging weakness of the yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. as another example, government actions in south america to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, could drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. for additional information on our assessment of the business environment, refer to the outlook section below. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies we remain firm in our belief that our continued focus on executing the four key priorities of our one ford plan enables us to go further for our customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, and other key constituencies: aggressively restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix; accelerate development of new products our customers want and value; finance our plan and improve our balance sheet; and work together effectively as one team, leveraging our global assets. despite the external economic environment in recent years, we have made significant progress in transforming our business. aggressively restructure to operate profitably brands. in recent years, we have eliminated a number of brands from our portfolio in order to devote fully our financial, product development, production, and marketing and sales and services resources toward growing our ford and lincoln brands. manufacturing. we are committed to maintaining an appropriate manufacturing footprint in markets around the world, both in the more mature markets in which we have an established presence, and in fast-growing newly-developed and emerging markets. we are making substantial investments in newly-developed and emerging markets, including in china, india, and thailand, to increase our production capacity with flexible new manufacturing plants. we and our unconsolidated affiliates in asia pacific africa have launched four new plants in the past two years, and have announced that we expect to complete six more plants in the region by mid-decade. we also are making substantial investments in north america to grow production, including the addition of 200,000 annual incremental units of production capacity during 2013 and significant hiring in the united states as part of our manufacturing capacity expansions. in 2014, we are increasing capacity or adding production at six of our assembly plants in the united states. in europe, however, we are reducing our capacity. as part of our europe transformation plan, we completed the planned closures of two manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom in 2013, and will close our genk, belgium manufacturing facility at the end of 2014. these and other actions are expected to reduce our employment levels and production capacity in europe, excluding russia, by 13% and 18%, respectively. suppliers . we continue to work to strengthen our global supply base. as part of this process, we have been reducing the global number of production suppliers from 3,300 in 2004 to about 1,200 at year-end 2013. we have identified plans that will take us to a target of about 750 suppliers, and we are confident that our consolidation efforts will result in a stronger and healthier supply base. we continue to work closely with our suppliers to address any near-term capacity constraints as we continue to ramp up production. in addition, our move to global vehicle platforms increases our ability to source to common suppliers for the total global volume of vehicle components resulting in a smaller number of suppliers receiving a greater volume of purchases to support our global vehicle platforms and allowing us to gain greater economies of scale. ford and lincoln dealerships . we have over 11,000 dealerships worldwide. our dealers are a source of strength around the world, representing the face of ford to our customers and local communities. our goal is to achieve a profitable dealer network by rightsizing the number of dealerships, identifying the right locations with modern facilities that deliver an innovative and engaging sales and service experience for our retail customers. in 2013, we added about 100 dealers in china, bringing the total number of ford dealers in china to more than 600. we plan to add dealers in other growth markets as well. in the united states, our ford and lincoln network had about 3,260 outlets at the end of 2013. product development. our one ford global product development system is fully operationalized, utilizing global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across global markets. through our hub and satellite approach, one lead product development engineering center the hub is assigned for each global vehicle line, thereby ensuring global scale and efficiency through common designs, parts, suppliers, and manufacturing processes. the hubs are supported by regional engineering centers - satellites - which also help deliver products tuned to local market customer preferences while maintaining global design dna. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our one ford global product development process utilizes global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across global markets. significant progress has been made and continues on our commitment to consolidate platforms. in 2007, we utilized 27 different vehicle platforms; we now have 15 total platforms, and are on track to meet our target of nine core platforms globally. in 2013, about 85% of our global vehicle volume was produced off of nine global core platforms. by 2016, 99% of our global vehicle volume will come off of our nine global core platforms. we are able to reinvest the savings of this platform consolidation back into product development, introducing more products at a faster product cadence, and better profitability. accelerate development of new products our customers want and value our product launch schedule for 2014 is the most aggressive in our history. we will launch 23 all-new or significantly refreshed vehicles around the world more than double the 11 global vehicles launched in 2013. in north america, we will have 16 launches triple the number of vehicles launched in 2013. globally, 150% of our product portfolio will change with all-new or significantly refreshed vehicles between 2014 and 2018. our industry-leading refresh rate results in continuous improvement, and we expect to have the lowest average age for global passenger vehicles in 2014. during 2014, we will launch an all-new mustang, which will be available in the united states this fall, in europe in early 2015, and in china and other asia-pacific markets in 2015. mustang will be available with three engines offering a broader power of choice, and world-class ride and handling enabled by a fully independent suspension. an all-new f-150 will be available in late 2014 with an all-new high-strength steel frame and advanced aluminum alloy body, which will result in up to 700 pounds of weight savings to help the f-150 tow more, haul more, accelerate quicker, and stop shorter, all with better gas mileage. the new f-150 also will introduce 11 new class-exclusive features, including a 360-degree camera view, integrated loading ramps stowed in the pickup bed, 400-watt power outlets inside the cab, led headlights and sideview mirror spotlights, and remote tailgate release. four engine choices will be available to provide unmatched power to meet almost any customer need. we remain committed to reinventing lincoln into a world-class luxury brand with a client experience to match. our lincoln brand transformation began with the lincoln mkz which was completely redesigned for 2013. the lincoln mkz is the first of four all-new vehicles that we will be launching through 2016 as part of our reinvention. the lincoln mkz was named 2013's best compact premium vehicle in the j.d. power apeal study, with january 2014 sales in the united states up 368% year-over-year. in 2014, we are adding the lincoln mkc to the lincoln line-up, providing an entry in the important and fast-growing small premium utility segment, one of the fastest growing premium segments in both the united states and china. our global product strategy is to serve customers in all markets with a full family of best in class vehicles small, medium and large; cars, utilities and trucks; each delivering the highest quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design, and value and delivering profitable growth for all. the fundamentals of our global product strategy are consistent, producing vehicles that: have bold, emotive exterior designs are great to drive are great to sit in (second home comfort, convenience, exceptional quietness) provide fuel economy as a reason to buy are unmistakably a ford or lincoln in look, sound, and feel provide exceptional value and quality 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) developing products customers want and delivering value for ford and lincoln demands consistent focus on our commitment in four key areas quality, green, safe, and smart. quality. we have made significant strides toward improving quality since 2005. one way we track this is in the incidence of warranty repairs per 1,000 vehicles in the first 3 months of service. global warranty repairs have fallen 66% from 2005 to 2013. as the incidence of repair has come down, so has the average warranty cost per unit in the first 3 months in service. over the same period, global warranty repair cost per unit has improved by 54%, including improvements of more than 70% in asia pacific africa, more than 60% in europe and south america, and about 45% in north america. a challenge we have faced recently has been customer satisfaction issues brought on by the rapid rise in the level of consumer technology we have introduced in our vehicles. one area of significant focus is myford touch. since launch of the feature in the 2011 model year, we have reduced things gone wrong (tgw) per affected unit by more than 50%. at the same time, we have introduced more products with myford touch, and the demand for the technology remains high. in addition, overall vehicle customer satisfaction is higher on vehicles with myford touch than those without. two other areas of focus for us have been issues related to certain of our transmissions and some interior items. as we are doing with myford touch, we have implemented high-leverage quality actions to address the transmission and interior issues. green . our commitment and approach to sustainability is unique in the industry. we prefer to provide our customers the power of choice, with a full technology range of gasoline, diesel, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and electric propulsion systems. we are also electrifying our most popular global platforms instead of one-off specialty models, so we have the manufacturing flexibility to balance our production to meet customer demand. for example, we produce vehicles with gas engines, ecoboost, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and full electrics at our michigan assembly plant. the ecoboost engine is the centerpiece of our blueprint for sustainability. in 2009, we embarked on a strategy to populate our product line with a portfolio of modern engines that uses advanced technologies to deliver high power output but with smaller displacements to provide big gains in fuel economy and emissions. the first application of this strategy was the 3.5l v6 ecoboost engine, which accounts for more than 125 patents on ecoboost technology and was named one of ward's ten best engines in 2010. the ecoboost technology migrated to the i4 architectures in 2010 and the 2.0l ecoboost was named one of ward's ten best engines in 2012 and again in 2013 . the 1.0l i3 ecoboost launched in 2012 and was named international engine of the year in 2012 and again in 2013 by engine technology international magazine. ward's recently named the 1.0l ecoboost one of its ten best engines for 2014. the 2014 fiesta powered by the 1.0l ecoboost delivers an epa-estimated rating of 45 mpg on the highway, which is best-in-class highway fuel economy among all subcompacts offered in the united states. we have produced more than 2 million ecoboost engines globally since we launched the engine line in 2009. with the upcoming launches of our mkc, mustang and f-150, we will introduce the new 2.3l i4 ecoboost and 2.7l v6 ecoboost engines. the 2.3l i4 fwd/awd configuration will be available on the mkc, generating 285 horsepower / 305 lb-ft torque. the 2.3l i4 rwd configuration for the mustang will generate more than 305 horsepower / 300 lb-ft torque. finally, the new 2.7l v6 ecoboost engine with auto start-stop has been developed for the new f-150 and will deliver the same power as a mid-range v8 and better fuel economy. we also offer six electrified vehicles delivering the power of choice for leading fuel economy across our lineup the focus electric, c-max hybrid, c-max energi, fusion hybrid, fusion energi, and lincoln mkz hybrid. our share of the u.s. electrified vehicle market more than doubled in 2013 up approximately 9 percentage points to 15.3 percent for 2013, compared with 2012. the increase contributed to our 0.5 percentage point increase in overall u.s. market share in 2013, the biggest gain of any full-line automaker. our sustainability strategy also identifies opportunities to use recycled or renewable material while enabling markets for end-of-life vehicle recycling. we are committed to increasing the use of recycled and renewable content in our vehicles. in support of our product development strategy, our material engineers are developing standardized specifications for sustainable materials and working with the recycling industry and our supply base to reduce the environmental impact of components. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) safe . vehicle safety is a critical part of our brand promise to go further. we are specifically committed to designing and manufacturing vehicles that achieve high levels of performance in real-world safety and meet or exceed all regulatory requirements for safety. ford remains among the leaders in vehicle safety, earning a total of 91 top safety picks from the insurance institute for highway safety ( iihs ) more than any other manufacturer in the eight-year history of that crash testing program. for the 2013 model year, 13 of our vehicles earned top safety picks from iihs. we aim to give customers peace of mind and make the world safer by developing advanced safety technologies and making them available across a wide range of vehicles. our available rear-seat inflatable safety belts, launched on the 2011 ford explorer, are an automotive industry exclusive and have won numerous awards. in the 2013 model year, we expanded the availability of these safety belts in north america to the ford flex and the lincoln mkt and mkz. the lane keeping system, a driver assist feature, was launched in 2011 in europe on the ford focus. its availability has been expanded to north america on the 2013 lincoln mks, mkt, and mkz and the ford explorer and fusion. for the 2013 model year, we expanded the availability of curve control, a driver assist technology that helps slow the vehicle when it senses the driver is taking a curve too quickly. in north america, curve control is now offered on the ford explorer, taurus, flex, and escape, as well as the lincoln mks and mkt. in europe, it is available on the ford kuga. driver behavior is a key contributing factor in many vehicle crashes. we have developed an array of programs and technologies that help to encourage safer behavior on the roadways, for both experienced and novice drivers. the ford driving skills for life ( ford dsfl ), our flagship driver-education program, demonstrates our commitment to help new drivers to improve their motoring skills. in the united states, ford dsfl focuses on teen drivers; in our asia pacific africa markets, the program is aimed at novice drivers of all ages. smart. ford continues to build upon its technology leadership by launching new features that make customers' lives easier and their driving experience safer and more enjoyable. examples of recently launched features include emergency assistance, active city stop, active park assist, lane departure warning, lane keeping assist, traffic sign recognition, door edge protector, enhanced traffic message channel, hands-free liftgate, and multi-contour seats. other exciting concepts are under development features that our customers see and appreciate, and make their driving experience safer and more enjoyable. ford set the benchmark for in-car connectivity systems with sync and we are now building on that success. we have produced more than 10 million vehicles that are equipped with sync, and we expect the total to increase to more than 14 million by 2015 as we launch sync globally. we are taking an agnostic approach to in-car connectivity which has three components: built-in, brought-in, and beamed-in to enable and enhance the customer's digital lifestyle. ford's newly established connectivity organization will focus on creating a seamless customer experience both inside and outside the vehicle. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) finance our plan and improve our balance sheet execution of our one ford plan has generated significant positive automotive operating-related cash flow in recent years, which has allowed us to strengthen our balance sheet while continuing to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. a proof point of this in 2013 was our ability to improve the funded status of our global pension plans by nearly $10 billion, while continuing to invest in new products and grow our business. in addition, we plan to increase the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, restructuring, and infrastructure to about $7.5 billion annually with variation by year. at the same time, we are targeting to reduce our automotive debt levels to about $10 billion by mid-decade. further, to provide attractive returns to our shareholders, our plan includes paying a regular, growing dividend that is sustainable over an economic or business cycle. in 2013, we doubled the quarterly dividend paid on our common and class b stock to $0.10 per share, and we have increased it an additional 25% for the first quarter of 2014. work together effectively as one team as part of the one team approach, we have implemented a disciplined business plan process to regularly review our business environment, risks and opportunities, strategy, and plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan. everyone is included and contributes, openness is encouraged, our leaders are responsible and accountable, we use facts and data to make our decisions, high performance teamwork is a performance criteria and we follow this process every week, every month, and every quarter, driving continuous improvement. we believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing conditions as we have done in the face of rapid changes in the market and business environment in the last few years. as needed, we convene daily management meetings to handle potentially acute situations, which allows us to ensure that we are vigorously managing daily developments and moving decisively in response to changing conditions. in addition, we are partnering with and enlisting all of our stakeholders to help us execute our plan to deal with our business realities and create an exciting and viable business going forward. we are reaching out and listening to customers, dealers, employees, labor unions, suppliers, investors, communities, retirees, and federal, state, and local governments. each of these constituencies is a critical part of the success of our business going forward. realizing our goal of profitable growth for all is as important to these stakeholders as it is to our shareholders. 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations total company our net income attributable to ford motor company was $7.2 billion or $1.76 per share of common and class b stock in 2013, an improvement of $1.5 billion or $0.34 per share from 2012. total company results are shown below: 2013 2012 2011 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) income pre-tax results (excl. special items) $ 8,569 $ 7,966 $ 8,763 special items (1,568 ) (246 ) (82 ) pre-tax results (incl. special items) 7,001 7,720 8,681 (provision for)/benefit from income taxes 147 (2,056 ) 11,541 net income 7,148 5,664 20,222 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (7 ) (1 ) 9 net income attributable to ford $ 7,155 $ 5,665 $ 20,213 net income includes certain items ( special items ) that we have grouped into personnel and dealer-related items and other items to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items. the first category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities. the second category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. as detailed in note 26 of the notes to the financial statements, we allocate special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and other automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments. the following table details automotive sector pre-tax special items in each category: 2013 2012 2011 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) personnel and dealer-related items separation-related actions (a) $ (856 ) $ (481 ) $ (176 ) mercury discontinuation/other dealer actions (71 ) (151 ) total personnel and dealer-related items (856 ) (552 ) (327 ) other items u.s. pension lump-sum program (594 ) (250 ) fcta -- subsidiary liquidation (103 ) (4 ) cfma restructuring 625 loss on sale of two component businesses (174 ) aai consolidation (b) 136 fordsollers gain 401 belgium pension settlement (109 ) debt reduction actions (60 ) other (15 ) (27 ) 13 total other items (712 ) 306 245 total special items $ (1,568 ) $ (246 ) $ (82 ) __________ (a) for 2013, primarily related to separation costs for personnel at the genk and u.k. facilities. (b) the special item of $136 million is comprised of the $155 million gain from the consolidation of aai (see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements), less a related $19 million adjustment for sales in september 2012 of ford-brand vehicles produced by aai. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) not shown in the table above are tax benefits of $2.2 billion, $315 million, and $14.2 billion for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, that we consider to be special items. for 2013, these included the impact of a favorable increase in deferred tax assets related to investments in our european operations and the release of valuation allowances held against u.s. state and local deferred tax assets. for 2011, these primarily consisted of the release of almost all of the valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in the united states, canada, and spain. discussion of automotive sector, financial services sector, and total company results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis and excludes special items unless otherwise specifically noted. references to records by automotive segments north america, south america, europe, and asia pacific africa are since at least 2000 when we began reporting results for these segments. the chart below shows 2013 pre-tax results by sector: total company 2013 pre-tax profit of $8.6 billion was among the best in our history. compared with 2012, total company pre-tax profit increased by $603 million, explained by higher automotive sector results. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive sector in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive pre-tax operating profit for our total automotive sector and reportable segments using the causal factors listed below, with revenue and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix - primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, and special lease offers contribution costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs other costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these include mainly structural costs, described below, as well as all other costs, which include items such as litigation costs and costs related to our after-market parts, accessories, and service business. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing and engineering - consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing- and engineering-related personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), new product launch expense, prototype materials, and outside engineering services spending-related - consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions - includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling - includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb - consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange - primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) impact of gains or losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the locations, including currency transactions, (ii) effect of remeasuring income, assets, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using u.s. dollars as the functional currency, or (iii) results of our foreign currency hedging activities net interest and other net interest - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in our automotive sector's centrally-managed net interest, which consists of interest expense, interest income, fair market value adjustments on our cash equivalents and marketable securities portfolio, and other adjustments other - consists of fair market value adjustments to our investment in mazda, as well as other items not included in the causal factors defined above 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2013 compared with 2012 total automotive. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue for the automotive sector were higher than a year ago by 12% and 10%, respectively. operating margin, at 5.4%, and pre-tax profit, at $6.9 billion, were also higher. higher pre-tax profit primarily reflects favorable marketable factors across all regions, offset partially by higher costs, mainly structural, and unfavorable exchange, principally in south america. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2013 and 2012 was $135.2 billion and $122 billion, respectively, a difference of $13.2 billion. an explanation of the change is shown below (in billions): 2013 better/(worse) 2012 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (8.6 ) contribution costs (a) commodity costs (incl. hedging) 0.2 material costs excluding commodity costs (0.6 ) warranty/freight (0.4 ) other costs (a) structural costs (2.9 ) other (0.3 ) special items (0.6 ) total $ (13.2 ) _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income before income taxes are shown below for 2013. in 2013, automotive pre-tax profit was the highest in more than a decade, with record profits in north america and asia pacific africa, an about breakeven result in south america, and a lower loss in europe than last year. other automotive reflects net interest expense, offset partially by a favorable fair market value adjustment of our investment in mazda. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. north america continued to perform well, driven by a strong industry, our strong product line-up, growth in u.s. market share, continued discipline in matching production to real demand, and a lean cost structure even as we invested more in product and capacity for future growth. as shown above, north america's full-year wholesale volume and revenue both improved 11% compared with 2012. operating margin was 9.9%, 0.5 percentage points lower than a year ago, while pre-tax profit was $8.8 billion, up about $400 million. the increase in pre-tax profit for 2013 compared with 2012 is more than explained by favorable market factors, offset partially by higher costs, mainly structural and warranty costs. for the full year, total u.s. market share was up 0.5 percentage points, more than explained by f-series and fusion, and u.s. retail share of retail industry was up 0.4 percentage points, more than explained by f-series, escape, and fusion. 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. in south america we are continuing to execute our strategy of expanding our product line-up and progressively replacing legacy products with global one ford offerings. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue both improved 8% compared with last year. operating margin was negative 0.3%, and the pre-tax loss was $34 million, both lower than positive results a year ago. the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2013 compared with 2012 is more than explained by higher costs and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by favorable market factors. the higher net pricing reflects partial recovery of the adverse effects of high local inflation and weaker local currencies, along with pricing associated with our new products. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. the improvement in europe's 2013 results, as shown above, reflect our continued implementation of our transformation plan. europe's full-year wholesale volume and revenue were up less than 1% and 5%, respectively, from a year ago. operating margin was negative 5.8% and the pre-tax loss was $1.6 billion, both improved from a year ago despite higher restructuring costs of about $400 million, lower industry volume, and unfavorable exchange. the improvement in pre-tax results is explained by favorable market factors, offset partially by higher costs and unfavorable exchange. europe's full-year market share, at 7.8%, was down 0.1 percentage points, mainly reflecting low availability of mondeo, s-max, and galaxy in the first quarter. for the year, total europe retail share of the retail passenger car industry was up one percentage point, primarily due to b-max and fiesta. our commercial vehicle market share for the full year, at 9.2%, was up 0.7 percentage points compared with the prior year, our highest share since 2007. in 2013, ford was the fastest-growing commercial vehicle brand, and transit nameplate was the leader in the commercial van segment. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific africa segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. our strategy in asia pacific africa continues to be to grow aggressively with an expanding portfolio of global one ford products with manufacturing hubs in china, india, and asean. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved 30% and 17%, respectively, compared with a year ago. operating margin was 3.5% and pre-tax profit was $415 million, both substantially improved from last year's results. the improvement in 2013 pre-tax results is explained by favorable market factors and other items, including higher royalties from our joint ventures and insurance recoveries, offset partially by higher costs associated with investments to support future growth, and unfavorable exchange. our market share in the region was a record 3.5% for the full year, up by 0.7 percentage points compared with 2012. the improvement was driven by china, where our market share for the full year rose to a record 4.1%, up by 0.9 percentage points compared with 2012. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2012 compared with 2011 total automotive. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, all four key metrics were about equal for 2012 compared with 2011, with pre-tax profit primarily reflecting higher net pricing and lower compensation costs (primarily the non-repeat of 2011 uaw ratification bonuses), offset by higher costs, mainly structural, and unfavorable volume and mix. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2012 and 2011 was $122 billion and $122.7 billion, respectively, a difference of about $700 million. an explanation of the change is shown below (in billions): 2012 better/(worse) 2011 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ 2.9 contribution costs (a) commodity costs (incl. hedging) material costs excluding commodity costs (0.9 ) warranty/freight 0.8 other costs (a) structural costs (1.5 ) other (0.2 ) special items (0.4 ) total $ 0.7 _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income before income taxes are shown below for 2012. total automotive pre-tax profit in 2012 was more than explained by profit from north america. south america was profitable and asia pacific africa incurred a small loss, while europe reported a substantial loss. the loss in other automotive was more than explained by net interest expense. 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. as shown above, all four key metrics increased for 2012 compared with 2011. the increase in pre-tax profit for 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflected favorable market factors, lower contribution costs, and lower compensation costs (primarily the non-repeat of 2011 uaw ratification bonuses), offset partially by higher structural cost. for the year, total u.s. market share was down 1.3 percentage points, while u.s. retail share of retail industry declined 0.7 percentage points. the declines largely reflected the discontinuation of the crown victoria and ranger, capacity constraints, and reduced availability associated with our fusion and escape model changeovers. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. as shown above, all four key metrics decreased for 2012 compared with 2011. the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflects higher costs and unfavorable exchange, primarily in brazil, offset partially by higher net pricing. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. all four key metrics declined for 2012 compared with 2011. the decline in wholesales and revenue primarily reflected lower industry sales and market share, and reductions in dealer stocks. exchange was also a contributing factor adversely affecting net revenue. the decline in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 primarily reflected unfavorable market factors. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific africa segment. the charts below detail key metrics and the change in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. as shown above, all four key metrics improved for 2012 compared with 2011. the improvement in 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 is more than explained by higher net pricing, favorable volume and mix, and favorable exchange, offset partially by higher costs associated with new products and investments to support higher volumes and future growth. our market share in the region increased sequentially each quarter during 2012, with fourth quarter 2012 market share at 3.4%, as we continued to benefit from increased capacity and new products. further demonstrating the growth we are experiencing in asia pacific africa, since 2009, wholesale volume has about doubled, market share has improved by half a point and net revenue has increased by about two-thirds even though our reported revenue does not include the revenue of unconsolidated joint ventures in china. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector as shown in the total company discussion above, we present our financial services sector results in two segments, ford credit and other financial services. ford credit, in turn, has two operations, north america and international. in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below: volume: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average finance receivables and net investment in operating leases at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin). volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding for the purchase of retail installment sale and lease contracts and to provide wholesale financing. financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average receivables. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average receivables for the same period. financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management. credit loss: credit loss measures changes in the provision for credit losses. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses primarily into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses. net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information on the allowance for credit losses, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section below. lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation. residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold, and changes in the estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term. for additional information on accumulated supplemental depreciation, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section below. other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, and insurance expenses. changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts. in general, other revenue changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates), which are included in unallocated risk management, and other miscellaneous items. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2013 compared with 2012 the chart below details the change in ford credit's 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor: the improvement of $59 million is more than explained by higher volume, primarily in north america, driven by an increase in leasing reflecting changes in ford's marketing programs, as well as higher non-consumer finance receivables due to higher dealer stocks. partial offsets are higher credit losses due to lower credit loss reserve reductions in all operations, and unfavorable residual performance related to lower than expected auction values in north america. results of ford credit's operations and unallocated risk management for the years ended december 31 are shown below (in millions): income before income taxes 2013 2012 2013 over/(under) 2012 north america $ 1,438 $ 1,550 $ (112 ) international 371 249 122 unallocated risk management (53 ) (102 ) 49 income before income taxes $ 1,756 $ 1,697 $ 59 the full year decrease in north america pre-tax profit is primarily explained by lower financing margin reflecting the run-off of higher yielding assets originated in prior years, unfavorable residual performance due to lower auction values in the united states, and higher credit losses due to lower credit loss reserve reductions. a partial offset is higher volume, primarily driven by an increase in leasing reflecting changes in ford's marketing programs, and higher non-consumer finance receivables due to higher dealer stocks. the full year increase in international pre-tax profit is primarily attributable to europe, explained by higher financing margin primarily driven by lower borrowing costs, as well as lower residual losses, partially offset by lower credit loss reserve reductions. the improvement in unallocated risk management primarily reflects the non-recurrence of unfavorable performance in market valuation adjustments to derivative features included in the ford upgrade exchange linked ( fuel ) notes. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's receivables, including finance receivables and operating leases, at december 31 were as follows (in billions): 2013 2012 net receivables finance receivables - north america consumer - retail financing $ 40.9 $ 39.5 non-consumer dealer financing (a) 22.1 19.5 other 1.0 1.1 total finance receivables - north america (b) 64.0 60.1 finance receivables - international consumer - retail financing 10.8 9.0 non-consumer dealer financing (a) 8.3 7.5 other 0.4 0.4 total finance receivables - international (b) 19.5 16.9 unearned interest supplements (1.5 ) (1.5 ) allowance for credit losses (0.4 ) (0.4 ) finance receivables, net 81.6 75.1 net investment in operating leases (b) (c) 18.3 13.6 total net receivables $ 99.9 $ 88.7 managed receivables total net receivables $ 99.9 $ 88.7 unearned interest supplements and residual support 3.1 2.6 allowance for credit losses 0.4 0.4 other, primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation total managed receivables (d) $ 103.4 $ 91.7 __________ (a) dealer financing primarily includes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory. (b) at december 31, 2013 and 2012, includes consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $27.7 billion and $29.3 billion, respectively, and non-consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $23.9 billion and $21.6 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's consolidated financial statements. in addition, at december 31, 2013 and 2012, includes net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses of $8.1 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively, that have been included in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's financial statements. the receivables and net investment in operating leases are available only for payment of the debt issue by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding securitization transactions. (c) beginning in the fourth quarter, ford credit changed its accounting method to include unearned interest supplements and residual support in net investment in operating leases . these amounts are amortized to depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases . the prior period was revised to conform to current year presentation. there is no change to profit before income tax or net income. (d) the prior period was revised to conform to current year presentation. managed receivables at december 31, 2013 increased from year-end 2012, driven by increases in non-consumer and consumer finance receivables in all operations and increases in leasing in north america . 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit losses. the charts below detail annual trends of charge-offs (credit losses, net of recoveries), loss-to-receivables ( ltr ) ratios (charge-offs divided by average managed receivables), credit loss reserve, and ford credit's credit loss reserve as a percentage of end-of-period ( eop ) managed receivables: ford credit's charge-offs were up from its record-low in 2012, primarily reflecting higher severity and lower recoveries in north america, and higher losses in international. the ltr ratio was up 2 basis points from 2012 and is ford credit's second lowest on record. the credit loss reserve and the reserve as a percentage of eop receivables were both lower than a year ago, reflecting the continuation of low charge-offs. in purchasing retail finance and operating lease contracts, ford credit uses a proprietary scoring system that classifies contracts using several factors, such as credit bureau information, consumer credit risk scores (e.g., fico score), and contract characteristics. in addition to ford credit's proprietary scoring system, it considers other factors, such as employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, ford credit classified between 5% and 6% of the outstanding u.s. retail finance and operating lease contracts in its portfolio as high risk at contract inception. for additional discussion, see critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses below. residual risk. ford credit is exposed to residual risk on operating leases and similar balloon payment products where the customer may return the financed vehicle to ford credit. residual risk is the possibility that the amount ford credit obtains from returned vehicles will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. changes in expected residual values impact the depreciation expense, which is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. for additional discussion, see critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases below. north america retail operating lease experience ford credit uses various statistics to monitor its residual risk: placement volume measures the number of leases ford credit purchases in a given period; termination volume measures the number of vehicles for which the lease has ended in a given period; and return volume reflects the number of vehicles returned to ford credit by customers at lease end. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america accounted for 99% of ford credit's total operating leases at december 31, 2013. the following table shows operating lease placement, termination, and return volumes for this operation for the years ending december 31 (in thousands, except for percentages): 2013 2012 2011 placements 365 257 219 terminations 174 126 246 returns 117 76 144 memo: return rates 67 % 60 % 59 % in 2013, placement volumes were up 108,000 units compared with 2012, primarily reflecting changes in ford's marketing programs and higher industry sales. termination volumes increased by 48,000 units compared with 2012, reflecting higher placements in 2011 relative to prior years. return volumes increased 41,000 units compared with 2012, reflecting higher terminations and higher return rates . u.s. ford and lincoln brand operating lease experience. the following charts show annual return volumes and auction values at incurred vehicle mix for vehicles returned in the respective periods. in 2013, ford credit's u.s. lease originations represented about 18% of total u.s. retail sales of ford and lincoln brand vehicles, and the u.s. operating lease portfolio accounted for about 88% of ford credit's total net investment in operating leases at december 31, 2013. ford credit's lease return volumes in 2013 were up significantly from 2012, reflecting primarily the higher lease placements in 2011 relative to prior years. its 2013 lease return rate was 71%, up 9 percentage points compared with 2012 reflecting lower auction values. in 2013, ford credit's auction values for both 24-month and 36-month vehicles declined, consistent with industry trends. ford credit's worldwide net investment in operating leases was $18.3 billion at the end of 2013, up from $13.6 billion in 2012. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2012 compared with 2011 the chart below details the change in ford credit's 2012 pre-tax results compared with 2011 by causal factor. the unfavorable lease residual performance primarily reflected lower residual gains, driven by lower termination and return volumes and lower per-unit gains. on average, vehicles were sold at gains in 2011 and 2012, but ford credit had fewer lease vehicles returned. for 2012, the lower return volume and smaller per-unit gains resulted in $523 million adverse residual performance when compared to 2011. lower financing margin is more than explained by a reduction in revenue from consumer finance receivables and operating leases in north america. this decline reflected the run-off of higher yielding consumer finance receivables and operating leases originated in prior years and the origination in more recent years of lower yielding assets. interest expense as a percent of average receivables decreased, but at a lower rate. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by generating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding. we target to have an average ongoing automotive gross cash balance of about $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to (i) future cash flow expectations such as for pension contributions, debt maturities, capital investments, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. in addition, we also target to maintain a revolving credit facility for our automotive business of up to about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. as discussed below, we currently have total commitments of $10.7 billion under our revolving credit facility. we assess the appropriate long-term target for total automotive liquidity, comprised of gross cash and the revolving credit facility, to be about $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. our automotive gross cash and automotive liquidity targets could be reduced over time based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. for a discussion of risks to our liquidity, see item 1a. risk factors, as well as note 29 of the notes to the financial statements regarding commitments and contingencies that could impact our liquidity. gross cash. automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, net of any securities-in-transit. gross cash is detailed below as of the dates shown (in billions): december 31, december 31, december 31, 2013 2012 2011 cash and cash equivalents $ 5.0 $ 6.2 $ 7.9 marketable securities 20.1 18.2 15.0 total cash, marketable securities, and loaned securities 25.1 24.4 22.9 securities-in-transit (a) (0.3 ) (0.1 ) gross cash $ 24.8 $ 24.3 $ 22.9 __________ (a) the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and a payable or receivable was recorded on the balance sheet. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated a-1/p-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments ranges from about 90 days to up to about one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. within our automotive gross cash portfolio, we did not hold investments in government obligations of greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain at december 31, 2013. in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive gross cash into operating-related and other items (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions, acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the financial services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other primarily financing-related). our key liquidity metrics are operating-related cash flow (which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash), automotive gross cash, and automotive liquidity. automotive gross cash and liquidity as of the dates shown were as follows (in billions): december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 gross cash $ 24.8 $ 24.3 available credit lines revolving credit facility, unutilized portion 10.7 9.5 local lines available to foreign affiliates, unutilized portion 0.7 0.7 automotive liquidity $ 36.2 $ 34.5 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash. this differs from a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ) and differs from net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities , the most directly comparable gaap financial measure. changes in automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions): 2013 2012 2011 gross cash at end of period $ 24.8 $ 24.3 $ 22.9 gross cash at beginning of period 24.3 22.9 20.5 change in gross cash $ 0.5 $ 1.4 $ 2.4 automotive income before income taxes (excluding special items) $ 6.9 $ 6.3 $ 6.3 capital spending (6.6 ) (5.5 ) (4.3 ) depreciation and tooling amortization 4.1 3.7 3.6 changes in working capital (a) (0.4 ) (2.3 ) 0.3 other/timing differences (b) 2.1 1.2 (0.3 ) automotive operating-related cash flows 6.1 3.4 5.6 separation payments (0.3 ) (0.4 ) (0.3 ) net receipts from financial services sector (c) 0.4 0.7 4.2 other (d) 0.4 1.1 (0.2 ) cash flow before other actions 6.6 4.8 9.3 changes in debt 0.7 0.9 (6.0 ) funded pension contributions (5.0 ) (3.4 ) (1.1 ) dividends/other items (1.8 ) (0.9 ) 0.2 change in gross cash $ 0.5 $ 1.4 $ 2.4 _________ (a) working capital comprised of changes in receivables, inventory, and trade payables. (b) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, compensation, marketing, and warranty, as well as additional factors, such as the impact of tax payments. (c) primarily distributions from ford holdings (ford credit's parent) and tax payments received from ford credit. (d) 2012 includes cash and marketable securities resulting from the consolidation of aai. with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive sector trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. in addition, these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), as of the dates shown (in billions): 2013 2012 2011 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities $ 7.7 $ 6.3 $ 9.4 items included in operating-related cash flows capital spending (6.6 ) (5.5 ) (4.3 ) proceeds from the exercise of stock options 0.3 0.1 net cash flows from non-designated derivatives (0.3 ) (0.8 ) 0.1 items not included in operating-related cash flows separation payments 0.3 0.4 0.3 funded pension contributions 5.0 3.4 1.1 tax refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates (0.3 ) (0.1 ) (1.4 ) settlement of outstanding obligation with affiliates (0.3 ) other 0.3 operating-related cash flows $ 6.1 $ 3.4 $ 5.6 credit agreement . at december 31, 2013, lenders under our amended and restated credit agreement dated as of november 24, 2009, as further amended (the revolving credit facility ), had commitments totaling $10.7 billion with a november 30, 2017 maturity date, and commitments totaling $50 million with a november 30, 2015 maturity date. the revolving credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change clauses, restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the revolving credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the revolving credit facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p (each as defined under total company below), the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. at december 31, 2013, the utilized portion of the revolving credit facility was $83 million, representing amounts utilized as letters of credit. less than 4.5% of the commitments in the revolving credit facilities are from financial institutions based in italy and spain. there are no commitments from financial institutions based in greece, ireland, or portugal. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program. in september 2009, we entered into a loan arrangement and reimbursement agreement ( arrangement agreement ) with the doe, under which we borrowed through multiple draws $5.9 billion to finance certain costs for fuel-efficient, advanced-technology vehicles. at december 31, 2013, an aggregate of $5 billion was outstanding. the principal amount of the atvm loan bears interest at a blended rate based on the u.s. treasury yield curve at the time each draw was made (with the weighted-average interest rate on all such draws being about 2.3% per annum). the atvm loan is repayable in equal quarterly installments of $148 million, which began in september 2012 and will end in june 2022. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) european investment bank ( eib ) credit facilities. on december 21, 2009, ford romania, our operating subsidiary in romania, entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 400 million (equivalent to $551 million at december 31, 2013) with the eib (the eib romania facility ), and on july 12, 2010, ford motor company limited, our operating subsidiary in the united kingdom ( ford of britain ), entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 450 million (equivalent to $744 million at december 31, 2013) with the eib (the eib united kingdom facility ). the facilities were fully drawn at december 31, 2013. loans under the eib romania facility and the eib united kingdom facility bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.44% and 4% per annum, respectively. proceeds of loans drawn under the eib romania facility have been used to fund upgrades to a vehicle plant in romania, and proceeds of loans drawn under the eib united kingdom facility have been used to fund costs for the research and development of fuel-efficient engines and commercial vehicles with lower emissions, and upgrades to an engine manufacturing plant in the united kingdom. the loans under each facility are five-year, non-amortizing loans secured by respective guarantees from the governments of romania and the united kingdom for approximately 80% and from us for approximately 20% of the outstanding principal amounts. ford romania and ford of britain have each pledged fixed assets, receivables and/or inventory to the governments of romania and the united kingdom as collateral, and we have pledged 50% of the shares of ford romania to the government of romania and guaranteed ford of britain's obligations to the government of the united kingdom. export-import bank of the united states ( ex-im ) and private export funding corporation ( pefco ) secured revolving loan. at december 31, 2013, this working capital facility, which supports vehicle exports from the united states, was fully drawn at $300 million. the facility was renewed on june 15, 2013 and will renew annually until june 15, 2015, provided that no payment or bankruptcy default exists and ex-im continues to have a perfected security interest in the collateral, which consists of vehicles in transit in the united states to be exported to canada, mexico, and other select markets. other automotive credit facilities. at december 31, 2013, we had $802 million of local credit facilities available to non-u.s. automotive affiliates, of which $99 million had been utilized. net cash. our automotive sector net cash calculation as of the dates shown was as follows (in billions): december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 gross cash $ 24.8 $ 24.3 less: long-term debt 14.4 12.9 debt payable within one year 1.3 1.4 total debt 15.7 14.3 net cash $ 9.1 $ 10.0 total debt at december 31, 2013 increased by $1.4 billion from december 31, 2012, primarily reflecting the issuance of $2 billion of 4.75% notes due january 15, 2043 in the first quarter and the consolidation of about $500 million of debt from our romanian operations in the first quarter, offset partially by the redemption of about $600 million of 7.50% notes due june 10, 2043 and four quarterly installment payments on the atvm loan which totaled about $600 million. proceeds from the debt issuance that were not used for reduction of higher-cost debt were used for pension contributions, which will reduce our pension expense by a greater amount than the interest incurred on the debt. notwithstanding the increase in debt, we continue to expect to reduce automotive debt levels to about $10 billion by mid-decade. we plan to achieve this reduction by using cash from operations to make quarterly installment payments on the atvm loan, repay the eib and ex-im loans at maturity, and take other debt reduction actions, such as causing conversions of and redeeming our outstanding convertible debt, and repurchasing other outstanding debt securities. pension plan contributions and strategy. worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $9 billion at december 31, 2013 and $18.7 billion at december 31, 2012. this represents an improvement of nearly $10 billion, driven primarily by higher discount rates and cash contributions. the u.s. weighted-average discount rate increased 90 basis points to 4.74% at year-end 2013 from 3.84% at year-end 2012. of the $9 billion underfunded position at year-end 2013, about $6 billion is associated with our unfunded plans. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our long-term strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. the key elements of this strategy include: limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants; reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions; progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation to be reached over the next few years of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as the voluntary lump sum payout program completed in 2013 for u.s. salaried retirees. in 2013, we contributed $5 billion to our global funded pension plans (including $3.4 billion in discretionary contributions to our u.s. plans), an increase of $1.6 billion compared with 2012. during 2014, we expect to contribute $1.5 billion from automotive cash and cash equivalents to our global funded pension plans, most of which will be mandatory contributions. we also expect to make $400 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of $1.9 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. pension plans in 2014. based on present assumptions, contributions to our global funded plans in 2015 and 2016 are expected to average between $1 billion and $2 billion per year, including both required and discretionary contributions. after 2016 and once we have fully de-risked our funded pension plans, we expect contributions to these plans to be limited to ongoing service cost in the range of $500 million to $700 million per year. we have continued to progressively increase the mix of fixed income assets in our u.s. plans with the objective of reducing funded status volatility. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2013 was 70%, up from 55% at year-end 2012. as shown under critical accounting estimates pension plans, this strategy has reduced the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates. we have now completed our u.s. salaried voluntary lump-sum program, under which eligible retirees and former salaried employees were offered a lump-sum settlement for their remaining pension benefit. for the program in total, we made payments to approximately 35,000 people, about 37% of those offered. we settled $4.2 billion in obligations ($1.2 billion in 2012 and $3 billion in 2013) with an equal amount paid from plan assets, representing about 25% of the related plan liability. based on present planning assumptions for long-term asset returns, a normalization of discount rates, and planned cash contributions, we expect our global funded pension obligations to be fully funded by mid-decade, with variability on a plan-by-plan basis for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 14 of the notes to the financial statements. liquidity sufficiency . one of the four key priorities of our one ford plan is to finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business. the actions described above are consistent with this priority. based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. based on improved near-term cash flows and the identification of additional opportunities for profitable growth, we plan to increase the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, restructuring, and infrastructure to about $7.5 billion annually with variation by year. this compares to our 2013 capital spending of $6.6 billion. we will continue to work to strengthen further our balance sheet and improve our investment grade ratings; the amount of incremental capital required to do this will diminish over time as we achieve our target debt levels and fully fund and de-risk our global funded pension plans. 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector ford credit funding strategy. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit completed its full-year 2013 funding plan, issuing $25 billion of public term funding. ford credit's public unsecured issuance was about $11 billion, including over $640 million issued under the ford credit u.s. retail notes program. ford credit's liquidity remains strong and it ended the year with $21.4 billion of available liquidity and $34.5 billion of committed capacity, compared with about $19.7 billion and $31.5 billion, respectively, at december 31, 2012. ford credit's funding plan is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, including disruption in the capital markets that could impact both unsecured debt and asset-backed securities issuance, and the effects of regulatory reform efforts on the financial markets. potential impacts of industry events and regulation on ford credit's ability to access debt and derivatives markets, or renew its committed liquidity programs in sufficient amounts and at competitive rates, represents another risk to its funding plan. as a result of such events or regulation, ford credit may need to reduce new originations of receivables, thereby reducing its ongoing profits and adversely affecting its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. ford credit is focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and unsecured debt. ford credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short- and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states, europe, mexico, and other international markets. at december 31, 2013, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $5.3 billion. at december 31, 2013, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was about $2 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit does not hold reserves specifically to fund the payment of any of its unsecured short-term funding obligations. instead, ford credit maintains multiple sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and uncommitted credit facilities, which should be sufficient to meet ford credit's unsecured short-term funding obligations. cost of funding sources. the cost of securitization transactions and unsecured debt funding is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate. spreads are typically measured in basis points. ford credit's asset-backed funding and unsecured long-term debt costs are based on spreads over u.s. treasury securities of similar maturities, a comparable london interbank offered rate ( libor ), or other comparable benchmark rates. the funding costs of ford credit's floating rate demand notes change depending on market conditions. in addition to enhancing ford credit's liquidity and diversifying its funding sources, one of the main reasons that securitization remains a primary funding source has been the cost advantage its securitization transactions offer over its unsecured long-term debt funding. as its credit ratings improve, ford credit expects to increase the mix of unsecured funding. during 2013, the weighted average spread of the triple-a rated notes offered in ford credit's u.s. public retail securitization transactions ranged from 9 to 25 basis points over the relevant benchmark rates and its u.s. institutional unsecured long-term debt transaction spreads ranged from 78 to 159 basis points over the relevant benchmark rates. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding portfolio. the chart below details the trends in the funding of ford credit's managed receivables: at year-end 2013, managed receivables were $103 billion and ford credit ended the year with about $11 billion in cash. securitized funding was 44% of managed receivables, down from 47% at year-end 2012, reflecting a greater mix of unsecured debt . ford credit is projecting 2014 year-end managed receivables of about $110 billion and securitized funding as a percentage of managed receivables in the range of 38% to 42%. this percentage will continue to decline going forward. public term funding plan. the following table illustrates ford credit's planned issuances for full-year 2014, and its public term funding issuances in 2013, 2012, and 2011 (in billions), excluding short-term funding programs: public term funding plan 2014 forecast 2013 2012 2011 unsecured $ 9-12 $ 11 $ 9 $ 8 securitizations (a) 12-15 14 14 11 total $ 21-27 $ 25 $ 23 $ 19 __________ (a) includes rule 144a offerings. in 2013, ford credit completed $25 billion of public term funding in the united states, canada, and europe, including about $11 billion of unsecured debt and $14 billion of securitizations. for 2014, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $21 billion to $27 billion, including $9 billion to $12 billion of unsecured debt and $12 billion to $15 billion of public securitizations. through february 17, 2014, ford credit has completed $1.6 billion of public term funding, consisting of a securitization transaction in the united states. 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the following table illustrates ford credit's liquidity programs and utilization (in billions): december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 liquidity sources (a) cash (b) $ 10.8 $ 10.9 $ 12.1 unsecured credit facilities 1.6 0.9 0.7 fcar bank lines 3.5 6.3 7.9 conduit / bank asset-backed securitizations ( abs ) 29.4 24.3 24.0 total liquidity sources $ 45.3 $ 42.4 $ 44.7 utilization of liquidity securitization cash (c) $ (4.4 ) $ (3.0 ) $ (3.7 ) unsecured credit facilities (0.4 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) fcar bank lines (3.3 ) (5.8 ) (6.8 ) conduit / bank abs (14.7 ) (12.3 ) (14.5 ) total utilization of liquidity (22.8 ) (21.2 ) (25.2 ) gross liquidity 22.5 21.2 19.5 capacity in excess of eligible receivables (1.1 ) (1.5 ) (2.4 ) liquidity available for use $ 21.4 $ 19.7 $ 17.1 __________ (a) fcar and conduits subject to availability of sufficient assets and ability to obtain derivatives to manage interest rate risk; fcar commercial paper must be supported by bank lines equal to at least 100% of the principal amount; conduits include committed securitization programs. (b) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (c) securitization cash is to be used only to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. at december 31, 2013, ford credit had $45.3 billion of committed capacity and cash diversified across a variety of markets and platforms. the utilization of its liquidity totaled $22 . 8 billion at year-end 2013, compared with $21.2 billion at year-end 2012. the increase of $1.6 billion reflects higher securitization cash and usage of its unsecured credit facilities. ford credit ended 2013 with gross liquidity of $22.5 billion. capacity in excess of eligible receivables was $1.1 billion. this provides a funding source for future originations and flexibility to transfer capacity among markets and asset classes where most needed. total liquidity available for use continues to remain strong at $21.4 billion at year-end 2013, $1.7 billion higher than year-end 2012. ford credit is focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements through economic cycles. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. at december 31, 2013, ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) totaled $10.8 billion, compared with $10.9 billion at year-end 2012. in the normal course of its funding activities, ford credit may generate more proceeds than are required for its immediate funding needs. these excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for its short-term funding needs and give it flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) primarily include u.s. treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions and non-u.s. central banks, corporate investment-grade securities, a-1/p-1 (or higher) rated commercial paper, debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. government agencies, supranational institutions, and money market funds that carry the highest possible ratings. within ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, it did not hold investments in government obligations of greece, ireland, italy, portugal, or spain at december 31, 2013. the maturity of these investments ranges from about 90 days to up to about one year and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. ford credit monitors its cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities include amounts to be used only to support ford credit's securitization transactions of $4.4 billion and $3 billion at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. ford credit's substantial liquidity and cash balance have provided it the opportunity to selectively call and repurchase its unsecured and asset-backed debt through market transactions. in 2013, ford credit called an aggregate principal amount of $163 million (of which none were maturing in 2013) of its unsecured debt. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) committed liquidity programs . ford credit and its subsidiaries, including fce, have entered into agreements with a number of bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper conduits ( conduits ) and other financial institutions. such counterparties are contractually committed, at ford credit's option, to purchase from ford credit eligible retail or wholesale assets or to purchase or make advances under asset-backed securities backed by retail financing, operating leases, or wholesale financing assets for proceeds of up to $29.4 billion ($18.4 billion of retail financing, $5.7 billion of wholesale financing, and $5.3 billion of operating lease assets) at december 31, 2013, of which $5.4 billion are commitments to fce. these committed liquidity programs have varying maturity dates, with $24.5 billion (of which $5.0 billion relates to fce commitments) having maturities within the next twelve months and the remaining balance having maturities in 2015. ford credit plans to achieve capacity renewals to protect its global funding needs, optimize capacity utilization, and maintain sufficient liquidity. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under these programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for certain securitization transactions. ford credit capacity in excess of eligible receivables protects it against the risk of lower than planned renewal rates. at december 31, 2013, $14.7 billion of these commitments were in use. these programs are free of material adverse change clauses, restrictive financial covenants (for example, debt-to-equity limitations and minimum net worth requirements), and generally, credit rating triggers that could limit ford credit's ability to obtain funding. however, the unused portion of these commitments may be terminated if the performance of the underlying assets deteriorates beyond specified levels. based on ford credit's experience and knowledge as servicer of the related assets, ford credit does not expect any of these programs to be terminated due to such events. credit facilities . at december 31, 2013, ford credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries had $1.6 billion of contractually committed unsecured credit facilities with financial institutions, including fce's 720 million (equivalent to $1.2 billion at december 31, 2013) syndicated credit facility (the fce credit agreement ), which matures in 2016. at december 31, 2013, $1.2 billion was available for use. the fce credit agreement contains certain covenants, including an obligation for fce to maintain its ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets at no less than the applicable regulatory minimum, and for the support agreement between fce and ford credit to remain in full force and effect (and enforced by fce to ensure that its net worth is maintained at no less than $500 million). in addition to customary payment, representation, bankruptcy, and judgment defaults, the fce credit agreement contains cross-payment and cross-acceleration defaults with respect to other debt. at december 31, 2013, the fce credit agreement included 95 million (equivalent to $157 million at december 31, 2013) of commitments from financial institutions based in italy. there were no commitments from financial institutions in greece, ireland, portugal, or spain. at december 31, 2013, fcar's bank liquidity facilities available to support fcar's asset-backed commercial paper, subordinated debt, or its purchase of ford credit's asset-backed securities totaled $3.5 billion, down from $6.3 billion at december 31, 2012. this reduction has been offset by increases in other committed liquidity programs, leaving ford credit's total sources of liquidity largely unchanged. ford credit will transition away from its fcar program in 2014. during this transition ford credit will retain liquidity facilities sufficient to support fcar's asset-backed commercial paper and subordinated debt. fcar has not made any purchases of asset-backed securities since march 2013 and will make no further purchases of asset-backed securities. ford credit's plan is to completely wind down fcar by second quarter 2014. ford credit has not issued any new fcar commercial paper since year-end 2013, and ford credit does not plan to issue any in the future. to facilitate the wind-down of the program, in early 2014 ford credit began repurchasing asset-backed securities held by fcar. ford credit is funding these purchases through available liquidity sources, including cash and committed liquidity facilities. in october 2013, ford credit established a new two-year syndicated committed asset-backed liquidity facility. the new facility, along with growth in other asset-backed private capacity, will offset the liquidity effects of winding down the fcar program. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) balance sheet liquidity profile. ford credit defines its balance sheet liquidity profile as the cumulative maturities, including the impact of prepayments, of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash, less the cumulative debt maturities over upcoming annual periods. the following chart shows its cumulative maturities for the periods presented at december 31, 2013: ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. maturities of investment in operating leases consist primarily of rental payments attributable to depreciation over the remaining life of the lease and the expected residual value at lease termination. maturities of finance receivables and investment in operating leases in the chart above include expected prepayments for ford credit's retail installment sale contracts and investment in operating leases. the 2014 finance receivables maturities in the chart above also include all of the wholesale receivables maturities that are otherwise extending beyond 2014. the chart above also reflects the following adjustments to debt maturities to match all of the asset-backed debt maturities with the underlying asset maturities: the 2014 maturities include all of the wholesale securitization transactions, even if the maturities extend beyond 2014; and retail securitization transactions under certain committed liquidity programs are assumed to amortize immediately rather than amortizing after the expiration of the commitment period. liquidity risks. despite its diverse sources of liquidity, ford credit's ability to maintain this liquidity may be affected by the following factors (not necessarily listed in order of importance or probability of occurrence): prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets; global capital market volatility; market capacity for ford- and ford credit-sponsored investments; general demand for the type of securities ford credit offers; ford credit's ability to continue funding through asset-backed financing structures; performance of the underlying assets within its asset-backed financing structures; inability to obtain hedging instruments; accounting and regulatory changes; ford credit's ability to maintain credit facilities and renew committed liquidity programs; and credit ratings assigned to ford credit. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. ford credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 total debt (a) $ 98.7 $ 89.3 $ 84.7 equity 10.6 9.7 8.9 financial statement leverage (to 1) 9.3 9.2 9.5 __________ (a) includes debt issued in securitization transactions and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 total debt (a) $ 98.7 $ 89.3 $ 84.7 adjustments for cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (b) (10.8 ) (10.9 ) (12.1 ) adjustments for derivative accounting (c) (0.2 ) (0.8 ) (0.7 ) total adjusted debt $ 87.7 $ 77.6 $ 71.9 equity $ 10.6 $ 9.7 $ 8.9 adjustments for derivative accounting (c) (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (0.2 ) total adjusted equity $ 10.3 $ 9.4 $ 8.7 managed leverage (to 1) (d) 8.5 8.3 8.3 __________ (a) includes debt issued in securitization transactions and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. (b) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. (c) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. (d) equals total adjusted debt over total adjusted equity. ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2013, ford credit's managed leverage was 8.5:1, compared with 8.3:1 at december 31, 2012. in 2014, ford credit expects managed leverage to be in the range of 8:1 to 9:1. in 2013, ford credit paid $445 million in distributions to its parent, ford holdings llc. total company equity. at december 31, 2013, total equity attributable to ford motor company was $26.4 billion, an increase of about $10.4 billion compared with december 31, 2012. the increase primarily reflects favorable changes in retained earnings , related to full-year 2013 net income attributable to ford motor company of $7.2 billion, offset partially by cash dividends declared of $1.6 billion, favorable changes in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) of $4.6 billion, more than explained by favorable pension and opeb adjustments, favorable changes in capital in excess of par value of stock, related to compensation-related equity issuances of about $400 million, and changes in treasury stock , related to stock re-purchases of about $200 million. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit ratings. our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ( dbrs ); fitch, inc. ( fitch ); moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies, inc. ( s&amp;p ). in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. there have been no ratings actions taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2013. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb (low) bbb (low) stable bbb (low) r-3 stable bbb (low) fitch bbb- bbb- stable bbb- f3 stable bbb- moody's n/a baa3 stable baa3 p-3 stable baa3 s&amp;p * bbb- bbb- stable bbb- nr stable bbb- __________ * s&amp;p assigns fce a long-term senior unsecured credit rating of bbb, a one-notch higher rating than ford and ford credit, with a negative outlook. the negative outlook reflects the negative trend s&amp;p has assigned to u.k. banking industry risk. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2013 planning assumptions and key metrics the following summarizes results against planning assumptions and key metrics established at the beginning of 2013: 2012 2013 full year full year results plan results planning assumptions industry volume (a) -- u.s. (mils.) 14.8 15.0 - 16.0 15.9 -- europe (mils.) (b) 14.0 13.0 - 14.0 13.7 -- china (mils.) 19.0 19.5 - 21.5 22.2 operational metrics compared with prior year: - market share -- u.s. 15.2 % higher 15.7 % -- europe (b) 7.9 about equal 7.8 -- china (c) 3.2 higher 4.1 - quality mixed improve mixed financial metrics compared with prior year: - total company pre-tax operating profit (bils.) (d) $ 8.0 about equal $ 8.6 - automotive operating margin (e) 5.3 % about equal / lower 5.4 % - automotive operating-related cash flow (bils.) (d) $ 3.4 higher $ 6.1 __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) the 19 markets we tracked. (c) includes ford and jmc brand vehicles produced in china by unconsolidated affiliates. (d) excludes special items; reconciliation to gaap for full-year 2012 and 2013 provided in results of operations and liquidity and capital resources above. (e) automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. production volumes (a) our 2013 production volumes and first quarter 2014 projected production volumes are as follows (in thousands): 2013 actual 2014 fourth quarter full year first quarter forecast units o/(u) 2012 units o/(u) 2012 units o/(u) 2013 north america 756 21 3,111 289 770 (14) south america 104 (12) 474 57 100 (11) europe 333 (7) 1,443 (3) 380 (6) asia pacific africa 379 77 1,326 303 360 74 total 1,572 79 6,354 646 1,610 43 __________ (a) includes production of ford and jmc brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates. we expect first quarter production to be about 1.6 million units, up 43,000 units from a year ago, reflecting higher volume in asia pacific africa. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook business environment we project global economic growth to be in the range of 2.5% to 3%, with global industry sales in the 85 million to 90 million unit range. we expect u.s. economic growth to be in the range of 2.5% to 3%, with industry sales supported by continued improvement in the housing sector and replacement demand as a result of the older age of vehicles on the road. policy uncertainty now is reduced, with the federal budget agreement and the federal reserve policy announcement in december 2013. in south america, brazil's economy is relatively weak with below trend growth, while in argentina and venezuela, there are escalating risks as both economies are weak with unclear economic policy direction. in europe, on the other hand, economic indicators are stabilizing. for 2014, we expect gross domestic product growth of 1% in the euro area and 2% in the united kingdom. the european central bank cut its policy interest rate to 0.25% in november 2013 and has indicated that it will keep rates low for an extended period. the bank of england also indicated that it will keep rates low until the unemployment rate has declined. in asia pacific, stable economic growth in the 7.5% range is expected this year in china as it carries out structural reform and transitions to a consumption-led economy. modest improvement is expected in india with growth in the 5% range as the country moves beyond election uncertainty and the new government ushers in more pro-growth economic policies. recently, a number of emerging markets have experienced depreciating currencies due to global capital flows and domestic issues unique to each market; this could represent an additional challenge to the global outlook. overall, despite challenges, we expect global economic growth to continue in 2014. total company in 2014, we are continuing to invest to create innovative products such as the all-new f-150 to ensure we have the freshest and most attractive product line-up in the industry. at the same time, we are investing to expand our portfolio into new markets, as well as adding capacity, where appropriate, to satisfy increasing demand. as a result, we expect 2014 to be another solid year and a critical next step forward in implementing our one ford plan to continue delivering profitable growth for all. our 2014 profit outlook by segment is as follows: 2013 full year 2014 full year results compared with 2013 (mils.) automotive (a) north america $ 8,781 lower south america (34 ) about equal europe (1,609 ) better middle east &amp; africa n/a about breakeven asia pacific 415 about equal net interest expense (801 ) about equal ford credit $ 1,756 about equal __________ (a) excludes special items north america we expect north america to be strongly profitable in 2014, but at a lower level than in 2013, with an operating margin ranging from 8% to 9%. this outlook reflects the impact of launching 16 all-new or significantly refreshed products. as a result, we expect production downtime for model change-overs to result in lower wholesale volume than in 2013. for the all-new f-150, we are scheduling this year 11 weeks of production downtime, including the summer shutdown, at our dearborn plant and two weeks, including the summer shutdown, at our kansas city plant. we expect net pricing in 2014 to be slightly unfavorable as we run out the outgoing models and we assume a continuation of a more competitive pricing environment for small and medium cars and utilities due to the weaker yen. we also expect higher manufacturing, engineering, and spending-related costs to support the launches, as well as for products and capacity actions that will be launched in later periods. finally, we will not benefit this year from dealer stock increases as we did in 2013. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america in south america, results are expected to be about equal to 2013, or about breakeven. this outlook reflects improved profitability in brazil and argentina, offset by deterioration in venezuela, including very low levels of production and our planning assumption that a major devaluation with a $350 million profit effect will occur in the first quarter. there are risks to this outlook, however, given the volatility of the situation in venezuela and increasing risks in argentina, where devaluation of the peso is accelerating and the government recently issued controls on vehicle imports. europe in europe, we expect reduced losses, including restructuring costs of about $400 million that will be reported in 2014 operating results. the europe transformation plan continues to progress well and the business unit remains on track to achieve profitability in 2015. middle east and africa our new middle east and africa business unit is expected to approach breakeven results. asia pacific asia pacific pre-tax profit is expected to be about the same as 2013, reflecting continued investments to support growth in 2014 and beyond, a slower rate of revenue and volume growth than a year ago due to production constraints, a more competitive pricing environment, and finally, unfavorable results in australia as we restructure the business and reflect the effects of a weakening australian dollar. net interest expense we expect automotive net interest expense this year to be about the same as 2013. ford credit ford credit expects 2014 pre-tax profit to be about equal to 2013. profit from growth in receivables should offset the continued normalization of credit losses, the continued run-off of higher-yielding assets, and the impact of ford credit's strategy to increase its percentage of unsecured debt as we continue to build a stronger investment-grade company. ford credit also expects managed receivables at year end of about $110 billion, managed leverage to continue in the range of 8:1 to 9:1, and distributions to its parent of about $250 million. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 planning assumptions and key metrics based on the current economic environment, our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2014 include the following: 2013 2014 full year full year results plan outlook planning assumptions industry volume (a) -- u.s. (mils.) 15.9 16.0 - 17.0 on track -- europe (mils.) (b) 13.8 13.5 - 14.5 on track -- china (mils.) 22.2 22.5 - 24.5 on track key metrics automotive (compared with 2013): - revenue (bils.) $ 139.4 about equal on track - operating margin (c) 5.4 % lower on track - operating-related cash flow (bils.) (d) $ 6.1 substantially lower on track ford credit (compared with 2013): - pre-tax profit (bils.) $ 1.8 about equal on track total company: - pre-tax profit (bils.) (d) $ 8.6 $7 - $8 billion on track __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) the 20 markets we track (traditional 19 markets plus romania). (c) automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. (d) excludes special items; reconciliation to gaap for full-year 2013 provided in results of operations and liquidity and capital resources above. for 2014, we project u.s. industry volume, including medium-heavy trucks, to range from 16 million to 17 million units. in europe, we expect a range of 13.5 million to 14.5 million units. in china, we expect volume to range from 22.5 million to 24.5 million units. for our financial metrics, which are now aligned to the key drivers of total shareholder return, we expect automotive revenue in 2014 to be about the same as 2013, automotive operating margin to be lower, and automotive operating-related cash flow to be positive but substantially lower than 2013, including higher capital spending consistent with our mid-decade outlook of about $7.5 billion. ford credit's 2014 pre-tax profit is expected to be about equal to 2013. we expect our operating effective tax rate to normalize at about 35%, compared with 27% last year. our outlook for 2014 is unchanged from the outlook we previously provided, with total company pre-tax profit, excluding special items, expected to range from $7 billion to $8 billion. one ford plan we remain focused on delivering the key aspects of the one ford plan, which are unchanged: aggressively restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix; accelerate development of new products our customers want and value; finance our plan and improve our balance sheet; and work together effectively as one team, leveraging our global assets. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors; decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products; market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states; an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events; economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors); single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure; substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change; the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts); adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets; cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and product recalls nature of estimates required. we accrue the estimated cost of basic warranty coverages for each vehicle at the time of sale. we establish estimates using historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. where little or no claims experience exists, we rely on historical averages. see note 29 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding costs for warranty actions. separately, we also accrue at the time of sale for potential product recalls based on historical experience. product recalls are distinguishable from warranty coverages in that the actions may extend beyond basic warranty coverage periods. assumptions and approach used. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return assumption reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy such as asset mix. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions are set at each year end and are generally not changed unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are recorded as unamortized net gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) on our balance sheet. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. see note 14 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2013 weighted average discount rate was 4.74% for u.s. plans and 4.07% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting increases of 90 and 15 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2012. in 2013, the u.s. actual return on assets was 3.7%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 7.4%. these differences resulted in a net reduction in unamortized losses of about $4 billion which are expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 11 years for the major u.s. plans). for 2014, the expected long-term rate of return on assets for u.s. plans is 6.89%, down about 50 basis points compared with a year ago, reflecting higher fixed income allocation. worldwide pension expense excluding special items was $1.6 billion in 2013. based on year-end assumptions, we expect 2014 pension expense to be lower compared with 2013. de-risking strategy . as previously disclosed, we adopted a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. as we de-risk our plans and increase their allocation to fixed income investments over time, we expect that the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will be significantly reduced, as any change should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2013 pension funded status and 2014 expense are affected by year-end 2013 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our net funded status. the table below estimates the impact as of december 31, 2013 on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point december 31, 2013 funded status factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $4,300/(5,300) $4,200/(4,800) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (3,500)/4,300 (1,200)/1,500 net impact on funded status $800/(1,000) $3,000/(3,300) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., bond coupon and active management excess returns), growth asset returns and changes in value of related insurance contracts. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) discount rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the estimated effect on 2014 pension expense of an increase/decrease in assumption for these factors is shown below (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point 2014 expense factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate +/- 10 bps. $(30)/35 $(35)/35 expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 10 (40)/40 (20)/20 the sensitivities shown may not be additive. the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for u.s. opeb plans at december 31, 2013 was 4.65%, compared with 3.80% at december 31, 2012, resulting in an unamortized gain of $430 million. this amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 12 years). sensitivity analysis. the effect on u.s. and canadian plans of a 100 basis point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would be a (decrease)/increase in the postretirement health care benefit expense for 2014 of approximately $(30) million/$40 million, and in the year-end 2013 obligation of approximately $(620) million/$740 million. income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. changes in our judgment regarding the ability to recover our deferred tax assets are reflected in our tax provision in the periods in which the changes occur. with the continued implementation of our one ford plan and the strength of our u.s. operations, we released valuation allowances related to certain u.s. state and local net operating losses at year-end 2013, resulting in a $418 million benefit in our provision for income taxes. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $1.6 billion is required, primarily for deferred tax assets related to our south america operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $20.1 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets, and concluded that no valuation allowance is required. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 22 of the notes to the financial statements. 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses is ford credit ' estimate of the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the balance sheet. consistent with its normal practices and policies, ford credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 8 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer portfolio. the retail financing and operating lease portfolio is evaluated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit ' present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from models may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio, and an element of the allowance for credit losses is established for the imprecision inherent in loan loss models. reasons for imprecision include changes in economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit makes projections of two key assumptions: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount of money a customer owes ford credit when it charges off the finance contract and the amount ford credit receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. ford credit uses these assumptions to assist it in estimating its allowance for credit losses. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage point change december 31, 2013 allowance for credit losses 2014 expense repossession ratios (a) +/- 0.1 pt. $27/$(27) $27/$(27) loss severity +/- 1.0 3/(3) 3/(3) __________ (a) reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates an allowance using a loss-to-receivables model for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. the non-consumer portfolio is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of collateral, and the financial status of the dealer). the loans are analyzed to determine if individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated for the expected loss of the impaired loans. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the provision for credit losses and insurance losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet, in each case under the financial services sector. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. for additional information on residual risk on operating leases, refer to the residual risk section above. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage change december 31, 2013 accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases 2014 expense future auction values +/- 1.0 $(71)/$71 $(31)/$31 return volumes +/- 1.0 6/(6) 4/(4) the impact of the increased accumulated supplemental depreciation in 2013 would be charged to expense in the 2014 2017 periods. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases , in each case under the financial services sector. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted for information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2013 (in millions): payments due by period 2014 2015 - 2016 2017 - 2018 2019 and thereafter total automotive sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) $ 686 $ 4,276 $ 1,678 $ 8,701 $ 15,341 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 681 1,218 1,030 7,663 10,592 capital leases 11 16 9 2 38 pension funding (d) 354 860 1,214 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,800 1,690 926 958 5,374 operating leases 199 296 153 134 782 total automotive sector 3,731 8,356 3,796 17,458 33,341 financial services sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) 21,811 37,833 16,300 8,054 83,998 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 2,441 3,120 1,497 1,544 8,602 capital leases 1 1 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 25 3 2 30 operating leases 47 81 45 18 191 total financial services sector 24,325 41,037 17,844 9,616 92,822 total company $ 28,056 $ 49,393 $ 21,640 $ 27,074 $ 126,163 __________ (a) amount includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $695 million for the automotive sector and $21,812 million for the financial services sector for the current portion of long-term debt. see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion. (b) automotive sector excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums of $(255) million. financial services sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(91) million and adjustments of $103 million related to designated fair value hedges of the debt. (c) excludes amortization of debt discounts/premiums. (d) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. plans. see note 14 for further information regarding our expected 2014 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2013 of $1.6 billion (see note 22 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 7, 14, and 15, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 83 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. in addition, as discussed in item 7, our senior management team meets at least weekly to review our business environment, risks and opportunities, strategy, and business plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan. we believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing conditions. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 84 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk), as of december 31, 2013, was an asset of $158 million compared with a liability of $268 million as of december 31, 2012. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been about $2 billion at december 31, 2013, unchanged from december 31, 2012. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). the net fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2013 was an asset of $4 million, compared with a liability of $101 million as of december 31, 2012. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been $70 million at december 31, 2013, compared with $103 million at december 31, 2012. the lower sensitivity from the end of last year primarily results from a decrease in the amount of commodities hedged during 2013 with forward contracts, partially offset by an increase in the amount of commodities hedged with option contracts. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2013 , we had $24.8 billion in our automotive investment portfolios, compared to $24.3 billion at december 31, 2012 . we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $193 million as calculated as of december 31, 2013. this compares to $185 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2012 . while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk. counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities and market-based credit default swap ( cds ) spreads . the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer-dated exposures . our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. 85 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk - the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; credit risk - the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk - the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and liquidity risk - the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit's overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks. credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are discussed above in item 7. a discussion of ford credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. interest rate risk . ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that its assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured debt. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, ford credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of its assets, in most instances with maturities up to ten years. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates, across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. 86 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates) (a) december 31, 2013 $ 63 $ (63 ) december 31, 2012 77 (77 ) _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros and pound sterling. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure relating to changes in currency exchange rates is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments as of december 31, 2013 was an asset of $79 million, compared to an asset of $856 million as of december 31, 2012 .risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, such as occurred during 2008 and 2009, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly developed and emerging markets, particularly in our asia pacific region and our middle east &amp; africa region, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. in addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. although we have a balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large cars, utilities, and trucks with competitive fuel efficiency, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2015 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 29 million units in 2014. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain countries that have adopted the euro currency ( euro area countries ) and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario or the perception that such a development is imminent could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government and other governments could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and a four-year agreement with the canadian auto workers union in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate a qualified underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our qualified u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). at december 31, 2014, we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. our shareholders approved the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2013. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may be in tension with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. in addition, the introduction of new and innovative features and technology to our vehicles could increase the risk of defects or customer dissatisfaction. in 2014, there was an unprecedented increase in both the number of safety recalls by manufacturers in the united states and vehicles involved in those recalls due, in part, to significant public and governmental attention on the recall process at one of our domestic competitors and nhtsa's expanded definition of safety defects. in addition, nhtsa's enforcement strategy shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. these recall and warranty costs could be exacerbated to the extent they relate to global platforms. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions also could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products . increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles are 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles beginning in the 2018 model year. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business ( item 1 ) above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. in brazil, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for discussion of tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. the techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. a significant cyber incident could harm our reputation and subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our second amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2014 and as further amended (the revolving credit facility ), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $12.2 billion. certain of our subsidiaries have standby or revolving credit facilities on which they depend for liquidity. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer financial protection act ( act ) in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer finance protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. for example, in march 2013, the cfpb issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes ford credit, take steps to monitor and/or impose controls over dealer discretionary pricing. in september 2014, the cfpb issued a proposed rule for the supervision of the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit. this is the initial step that is expected to lead to examinations of nonbank automotive finance companies for compliance with consumer finance protection laws as early as 2015. in addition, the act provides that a non-bank financial company could be designated a systemically important financial institution by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) insured deposits. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the fdic may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. 3 item 1. business (continued) intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we currently have approximately 30,400 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five and a half years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions. we currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. 4 item 1. business (continued) industry sales volume industry sales volume in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows (in millions of units): industry sales volume (a) 2014 2013 2012 united states 16.8 15.9 14.8 canada 1.9 1.8 1.7 mexico 1.2 1.1 1.0 north america 20.2 19.1 17.8 brazil 3.5 3.8 3.8 argentina 0.7 0.9 0.8 south america 5.3 5.9 5.9 britain 2.8 2.6 2.3 germany 3.4 3.3 3.4 russia 2.5 2.8 3.0 turkey 0.8 0.9 0.8 europe (b) 18.6 18.3 18.6 middle east &amp; africa 4.2 3.9 4.0 china 24.0 22.2 19.0 australia 1.1 1.1 1.1 india 3.2 3.3 3.6 asean (c) 3.1 3.5 3.4 asia pacific 39.6 37.8 34.8 global 87.9 85.0 81.1 ______________ (a) industry sales volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations. (b) europe 20 industry sales volume was 14.6 million, 13.8 million, and 14.1 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. europe 20 consists of austria, belgium, britain, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, romania, spain, sweden, and switzerland. (c) asean includes indonesia, philippines, thailand, vietnam, and malaysia. 5 item 1. business (continued) wholesales our wholesale unit volumes in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows (in thousands of units): wholesales (a)(b) 2014 2013 2012 united states 2,457 2,608 2,302 canada 288 283 281 mexico 77 91 83 north america 2,842 3,006 2,693 brazil 320 364 336 argentina 94 118 107 south america 463 538 498 britain 425 379 337 germany 237 227 208 russia 57 105 134 turkey 91 114 108 europe 1,387 1,317 1,295 middle east &amp; africa 192 199 221 china 1,116 936 627 australia 80 85 94 india 77 80 87 asean 94 99 95 asia pacific 1,439 1,270 961 total company 6,323 6,330 5,668 ______________ (a) wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks. (b) wholesale unit volumes include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. 6 item 1. business (continued) market share our market share in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years was as follows: market share (a) 2014 2013 2012 united states 14.7 % 15.7 % 15.2 % canada 15.5 15.9 16.1 mexico 6.9 8.0 8.2 north america 14.2 15.2 14.8 brazil 9.4 % 9.4 % 9.1 % argentina 14.1 12.6 12.3 south america 8.9 8.9 8.6 britain 14.5 % 14.6 % 14.9 % germany 7.1 6.9 6.8 russia 2.6 3.8 4.3 turkey 11.7 12.9 13.8 europe (b) 7.2 7.3 7.4 middle east &amp; africa 4.7 % 5.0 % 4.3 % china 4.5 % 4.1 % 3.2 % australia 7.2 7.7 8.1 india 2.4 2.5 2.4 asean 3.1 2.7 2.6 asia pacific (c) 3.5 3.3 2.6 global 7.2 % 7.3 % 6.9 % ______________ (a) market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry sales volume in the relevant market or region. market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) europe 20 market share was 8.0%, 7.8%, and 7.9% in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. (c) asia pacific market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. 7 item 1. business (continued) financial services sector ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford motor credit company llc ( ford credit ) offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental car companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. ford credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., floorplan financing), as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers, receivables from ford-related loans, and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operation is managed through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany, representing approximately 67% of fce's finance receivables and operating leases. the following table shows ford credit's financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles sold by dealers in the united states and new ford vehicles sold by dealers in europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe: years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 united states - financing share retail installment and lease 45 % 40 % 38 % wholesale 77 77 78 europe - financing share retail installment and lease 36 % 34 % 32 % wholesale 98 98 98 see item 7 and notes 5, 6, and 7 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. on april 30, 2014, we entered into a relationship agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. the agreement also limits to $2 billion the amount ford credit may borrow under our second amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2014. in a separate agreement with fce, ford credit also has agreed to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 8 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements - federal emissions standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. in 2014, the epa finalized new tier 3 regulations that phase in increasingly stringent motor vehicle emissions standards beginning with the 2017 model year; compliance with these standards could be challenging. compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. fuel variables that can affect vehicle emissions include ethanol content, octane rating, and the use of metallic-based fuel additives, among other things. there are various ongoing regulatory and judicial proceedings related to fuel quality at the national and state level, and the outcome of these proceedings could affect vehicle manufacturers' warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards. u.s. requirements - california and other state emissions standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california may establish its own unique vehicle emissions control standards; the california standards can also be adopted by other states. the california air resources board has adopted lev iii standards, which took effect with the 2015 model year and impose increasingly stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions requirements for light and medium duty vehicles. thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the lev iii standards. the california vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale so-called zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ). the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles, particularly for the 2018 - 2025 model years. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with the 2018 - 2025 model year zev rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volumes of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, especially if gasoline prices remain relatively low . we also are concerned about enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. carb conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming zev requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance. ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that zev requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome. european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new stage v emissions standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in january 2011; stage vi requirements apply from september 2014, with a second phase beginning in september 2017. stage v particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters in diesel engines, and stage vi further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen. this will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. these technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles. the additional requirements for the second phase of stage vi will further increase the stringency of particle emissions for direct injection gasoline vehicles, and apply more demanding on-board diagnostic thresholds for all vehicles. the costs associated with additional testing that may be required for the second phase of stage vi concerning real driving emissions could be significant. 9 item 1. business (continued) other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emissions regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china adopted emission regulations for large cities based on european stage v emissions standards. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. although these countries have adopted regulations based un-ece or u.s. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. tier 2 requirements discussed above. in september 2014, the canadian federal government published the proposed amendments to the on-road vehicle and engine emission regulations and the sulphur in gasoline regulations . the final regulations are expected to align standards with the u.s. tier 3 regulations. furthermore, not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. japan has unique standards and test procedures, which may require that unique emissions control systems be designed for the japanese market. brazil, argentina, and chile have also introduced more stringent emissions standards. since 2012, brazil has applied european stage v emissions and on-board diagnostic standards for heavy trucks, and more stringent light vehicle limits. argentina also will apply light vehicle stage v standards beginning in 2015 (for new vehicle homologations) and 2017 (for new vehicle registrations). chile introduced more stringent emission standards (i.e., european stage v or corresponding u.s. emissions standards) nationwide for light and medium duty vehicles in september 2014. since october 2014, new heavy duty vehicle models are required to meet stage v (or corresponding u.s. emissions standards). all other new heavy vehicles are required to meet these standards beginning october 2015. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards u.s. requirements - light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). a manufacturer is subject to substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light trucks, respectively. the epa also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas emissions under the clean air act. because the vast majority of greenhouse gases emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, greenhouse gas emission standards effectively are fuel economy standards. thus, it is necessary for nhtsa and epa to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and greenhouse gas ( ghg ) standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies. in 2010, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations establishing the one national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. these rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year. each manufacturer's specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the one national program standards become increasingly stringent over time, and they will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, epa and nhtsa will re-evaluate their standards for model years 2022-2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. we are particularly concerned about the commercial feasibility of meeting the 2022-2025 model year ghg and cafe standards, and therefore the midterm evaluation process is very important to ford and the auto industry. ford's ability to comply with the 2022-2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future. we intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards. our concern about the feasibility of the fuel economy / ghg standards also extends to some of the pre-2022 model year standards, which are not covered by the midterm evaluation. 10 item 1. business (continued) if the agencies seek to impose and enforce fuel economy and ghg standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. california has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. with the adoption of the federal one national program standards discussed above, california and the other states have agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with any purported state ghg requirements for the 2012-2025 model years. this avoids a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. should california and other states ever renew their efforts to enforce state-specific motor vehicle ghg rules, this would impose significant costs on automotive manufacturers. u.s. requirements - heavy duty vehicles. epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated ghg and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating). in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. in 2015, epa and nhtsa are expected to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking on a new round of standards for these vehicles, covering model year 2019 and beyond. ford plans to review and comment on the proposed standards. as the heavy-duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions beginning in 2012 that limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ( g/km ), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ( eco-innovations ), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. a penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from 5 to 95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 2018, and 95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. manufacturers will be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden. further pooling agreements between different manufacturers also are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. starting in 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. other non-eu european countries are likely to follow with similar regulations. for example, switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in july 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance. in separate legislation, complementary measures have been mandated, including requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission, council and parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020; it is likely that other european countries, like switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions. this regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for so-called multi-stage vehicles (e.g., our transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, super-credits for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. the united nations has a project underway to develop a new technical regulation for passenger car emissions and co 2. this new world light duty test procedure ( wltp ) is focused primarily on delivering realistic co 2 and fuel consumption figures. the introduction of wltp in europe is likely to start with updates to co 2 labeling beginning in 2019 and could lower certain consumer label values. costs associated with new or incremental testing for wltp could be significant. the european commission continues to apply political pressure for mandatory wltp testing for regulated emissions and co 2 starting in september 2017. the european commission has assured equivalent stringency to the existing fleet average rules for each automobile manufacturer if the 2020 fleet average targets are required to be measured on wltp instead of under the current european nedc requirements. 11 item 1. business (continued) some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. to limit ghg emissions, the eu directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower global warming potential refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in january 2017. a refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole value chain. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. the standards track the new u.s. cafe standards for the 2011 model year and u.s. epa ghg regulations for the 2012-2016 model years. in october, 2014, the canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017-2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014-2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in february 2013. mexico adopted fuel economy/co 2 standards, based on the u.s. one national program framework, that took effect in 2014. many asia pacific countries (such as australia, china, japan, india, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam) are developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, south korea and japan have set fuel efficiency targets for 2020, with incentives for early adoption. china published standards for stage iv fuel efficiency targets for 2016 2020. the fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine. brazil also published a new automotive regime which requires participation in the fuel economy labeling program. it establishes a minimum absolute cafe value as a function of fleet corporate average mass for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction for customers. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved. a severe penalty system will apply to qualified manufacturers failing to meet fuel efficiency requirement for the 2013 2017 sales period. chile introduced requirements for fuel consumption and co 2 emissions levels of light duty vehicles to be posted at sales locations and in owner manuals beginning in february 2013. chile introduced a tax based on urban fuel consumption and nox emission for light and medium vehicles beginning in late 2014. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. 12 item 1. business (continued) other national requirements. the eu and many countries around the world have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new safety and recall requirements in china, india, and gulf cooperation council countries also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. in south america, additional safety requirements are being introduced or proposed in argentina, brazil, chile (mainly for heavy vehicles), ecuador, and uruguay, influenced by latin ncap, which may be a driver for similar actions in other countries. in canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with u.s. regulations. however, recent amendments to the canadian motor vehicle safety act could introduce broad powers to the minister of transport to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the minister considers it would be in the interest of safety. employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 was as follows (in thousands): 2014 2013 automotive north america 90 84 south america 16 18 europe 47 50 middle east &amp; africa 3 3 asia pacific 25 20 financial services ford credit 6 6 total 187 181 the year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects hiring in north america and asia pacific to support product-led growth initiatives and increased vehicle production. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). approximately 1.5% of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2011, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the uaw. the agreement covers approximately 50,000 employees, and maintained our progress on improving competitiveness in the united states by providing for lump-sum payments (in lieu of general wage increases and cost of living increases) and continuation of an entry-level wage structure. in 2014, we negotiated collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with labor unions in argentina, brazil, france, germany, italy, mexico, and thailand. in 2015, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with labor unions in brazil, china, france, germany, italy, mexico, romania, russia, thailand, united kingdom, and united states. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. engineering, research, and development expenses for 2014, 2013, and 2012 were $6.9 billion, $6.4 billion, and $5.5 billion, respectively. 13 item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, such as occurred during 2008 and 2009, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly developed and emerging markets, particularly in our asia pacific region and our middle east &amp; africa region, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. in addition, with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. although we have a balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large cars, utilities, and trucks with competitive fuel efficiency, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2015 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 29 million units in 2014. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain countries that have adopted the euro currency ( euro area countries ) and the ability of these countries to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. such a scenario or the perception that such a development is imminent could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such a development could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government and other governments could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, where suppliers have exited certain lines of business or closed facilities due to the economic downturn or other reasons, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2011, and a four-year agreement with the canadian auto workers union in 2012. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate a qualified underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our qualified u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). at december 31, 2014, we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2012, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. our shareholders approved the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2013. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may be in tension with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. in addition, the introduction of new and innovative features and technology to our vehicles could increase the risk of defects or customer dissatisfaction. in 2014, there was an unprecedented increase in both the number of safety recalls by manufacturers in the united states and vehicles involved in those recalls due, in part, to significant public and governmental attention on the recall process at one of our domestic competitors and nhtsa's expanded definition of safety defects. in addition, nhtsa's enforcement strategy shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. these recall and warranty costs could be exacerbated to the extent they relate to global platforms. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions also could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products . increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles are 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles beginning in the 2018 model year. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business ( item 1 ) above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. in brazil, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for discussion of tax proceedings in brazil. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. the techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. a significant cyber incident could harm our reputation and subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our second amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2014 and as further amended (the revolving credit facility ), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $12.2 billion. certain of our subsidiaries have standby or revolving credit facilities on which they depend for liquidity. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer financial protection act ( act ) in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer finance protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. for example, in march 2013, the cfpb issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes ford credit, take steps to monitor and/or impose controls over dealer discretionary pricing. in september 2014, the cfpb issued a proposed rule for the supervision of the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit. this is the initial step that is expected to lead to examinations of nonbank automotive finance companies for compliance with consumer finance protection laws as early as 2015. in addition, the act provides that a non-bank financial company could be designated a systemically important financial institution by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) insured deposits. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the fdic may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 20 item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 51% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 98% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. we and the entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2014 use eight regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 62 manufacturing plants as shown in the table below: segment plants north america 30 south america 8 europe 12 middle east &amp; africa 2 asia pacific 10 total 62 included in the number of plants shown above are plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive sector. the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns are as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh also has local product development capability to modify component parts for local needs, and imports ford brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific africa region, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is owned by the vietnamese ministry of industry and trade)(25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of these joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales. 21 item 2. properties (continued) blue diamond parts, llc ( blue diamond parts ) a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar international corporation (formerly known as international truck and engine corporation) ( navistar ) (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond parts manages sourcing, merchandising, and distribution of certain service parts for trucks sold in north america. blue diamond truck, s. de r.l. de c.v. ( blue diamond truck ) a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar (75% partner), in which the two partners share equal voting rights. blue diamond truck develops and manufactures medium-duty commercial trucks at its plant in escobedo, mexico and sells the vehicles to navistar and us for distribution. the blue diamond truck joint venture is scheduled to terminate at the end of april 2015, after which we will in-source production of f-650/750 trucks to our ohio assembly plant. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf currently operates three assembly plants with total annual production capacity of about 1 million vehicles, an engine plant, and a transmission plant in china where it produces and distributes an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models. caf is constructing an assembly plant in hangzhou, which is expected to launch in 2015 and will provide caf with capacity for an additional 300,000 vehicles. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces engines for ford and mazda vehicles manufactured in china. ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also makes the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license from us. the joint venture owns two plants, a parts distribution depot, a product development center, and a new research and development center in turkey. ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( ford sollers ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc ( sollers ). the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia, and has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture has been approved to participate in russia's industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia. in addition to its three existing manufacturing facilities in russia, ford sollers plans to launch an engine plant in russia in 2015. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with getrag international gmbh, a german company. gft operates plants in halewood, england; cologne, germany; bordeaux, france; and kechnex, slovakia to produce, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles the ford transit van, ford diesel engines, and non-ford vehicles for distribution in china and in other export markets. jmc operates two plants in nanchang with total annual production capacity of about 500,000 vehicles, and plans to launch a new engine plant in nanchang in 2015. jmc also is constructing a new plant in taiyuan to assemble heavy duty trucks and engines. tenedora nemak, s.a. de c.v. a joint venture between ford (6.75% partner) and a subsidiary of mexican conglomerate alfa s.a. de c.v. (93.25% partner). the joint venture supplies aluminum engine and other components from its plants located in regions in which we do business. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment, and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to the operations' total assets. 22 item 2. properties (continued) item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicles. in many, no dollar amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy, or emerged from bankruptcy relieved of liability for such claims. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, sometimes more than one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. at this time, we have no individual environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000. 23 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list below those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. medium/heavy truck sales procedure class action. this action pending in the ohio state court system alleges that ford breached its sales and service agreement with ford truck dealers by failing to publish to all ford dealers all price concessions that were approved for any dealer. the trial court certified a nationwide class consisting of all ford dealers who purchased from ford any 600-series or higher truck from 1987 to 1997, and granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on liability. during 2011, a jury awarded $4.5 million in damages to the named plaintiff dealer and the trial court applied the jury's findings with regard to the named plaintiff to all dealers in the class, entering a judgment of approximately $2 billion in damages. we appealed, and on may 3, 2012, the ohio court of appeals reversed the trial court's grant of summary judgment to plaintiffs, vacated the damages award, and remanded the matter for a new trial. the retrial in septe mber 2013 resulted in a verdict in ford's favor. on february 7, 2014, the trial court granted plaintiffs' motion for a new trial, but on december 11, 2014, the ohio court of appeals reversed the order granting a new trial and reinstated the verdict in ford's favor. plaintiffs have sought further review in the ohio supreme court. other matters brazilian tax matters. three brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority have levied substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. for each assessment, if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state or federal judicial court, which would likely require us to post significant collateral in order to proceed. our appeals with one state and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level. in the other two states, where three cases are pending, we have appealed to the judicial court and to date we have not been required to post collateral. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp (1) is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and (2) is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). a decision by cit may be appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit. if we prevail, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. if we do not prevail, cbp would recover the increased duties for prior imports, plus interest, and might assert a claim for penalties. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 24 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2015: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board sept. 2006 57 mark fields (b) president and chief executive officer jul. 2014 54 james d. farley, jr. executive vice president president, europe, middle east &amp; africa jan. 2015 52 john fleming executive vice president global manufacturing and labor affairs dec. 2009 64 joseph r. hinrichs executive vice president president, the americas dec. 2012 48 stephen t. odell executive vice president global marketing, sales and service jan. 2015 59 bob shanks executive vice president and chief financial officer apr. 2012 62 ray day group vice president communications mar. 2013 48 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services apr. 2008 49 bennie fowler group vice president quality and new model launch apr. 2008 58 david g. leitch group vice president and general counsel apr. 2005 54 raj nair group vice president global product development apr. 2012 50 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations jan. 2004 47 dave schoch group vice president president, asia pacific dec. 2012 63 bernard silverstone group vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. jan. 2013 59 hau thai-tang group vice president global purchasing aug. 2013 48 stuart rowley vice president and controller apr. 2012 47 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 25 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states, and on certain stock exchanges in belgium and france. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock, and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2013 and 2014: 2013 2014 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 14.30 $ 16.09 $ 17.77 $ 18.02 $ 16.78 $ 17.35 $ 18.12 $ 16.13 low 12.10 12.15 15.56 15.10 14.40 15.43 14.49 13.26 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.125 0.125 0.125 0.125 __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. as of february 6, 2015, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 137,803 holders of common stock and 36 holders of class b stock. in may 2014 we commenced and in august 2014 we completed a repurchase program for approximately 116 million shares of ford common stock, or 3% of diluted shares, at a total cost of about $2 billion. approximately 12.6 million shares were repurchased to offset the dilutive effect of share-based employee incentive compensation granted in 2014. approximately 103 million shares were repurchased to offset the dilutive effect of our 4.25% senior convertible notes due november 15, 2016, as well as to offset the increase in outstanding shares that would result from settling conversions with shares. on october 21, 2014, we announced our election to terminate holders' conversion rights in accordance with the terms of the convertible notes, effective november 20, 2014. until november 19, 2014, holders had the right to convert their notes and almost all of the total $882 million principal amount of convertible notes that were outstanding was converted. approximately 103 million shares of ford common stock were issued by us to settle the conversions. 26 item 6. selected financial data. on january 1, 2014, we changed our accounting method for determining the obligation for long-term disability benefits (see note 1 ). we have applied the change in accounting method retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and the amounts below reflect this change. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 total company revenues $ 144,077 $ 146,917 $ 133,559 $ 135,605 $ 128,122 income before income taxes $ 4,342 $ 7,040 $ 7,638 $ 8,646 $ 7,069 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 1,156 (135 ) 2,026 (11,675 ) 592 net income 3,186 7,175 5,612 20,321 6,477 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) (7 ) (1 ) 9 (4 ) net income attributable to ford motor company $ 3,187 $ 7,182 $ 5,613 $ 20,312 $ 6,481 automotive sector revenues $ 135,782 $ 139,369 $ 126,567 $ 128,168 $ 119,280 income before income taxes 2,548 5,368 5,928 6,215 4,066 financial services sector revenues $ 8,295 $ 7,548 $ 6,992 $ 7,437 $ 8,842 income before income taxes 1,794 1,672 1,710 2,431 3,003 earnings per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,912 3,935 3,815 3,793 3,449 basic income $ 0.81 $ 1.83 $ 1.47 $ 5.36 $ 1.88 diluted income 0.80 1.77 1.41 4.97 1.65 cash dividends declared 0.50 0.40 0.15 0.05 common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high 18.12 18.02 13.08 18.97 17.42 low 13.26 12.10 8.82 9.05 9.75 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 90,079 $ 90,479 $ 86,623 $ 78,920 $ 64,606 financial services sector 121,388 115,057 105,012 100,612 102,407 intersector elimination (1,024 ) (1,631 ) (252 ) (1,112 ) (2,083 ) total assets $ 210,443 $ 203,905 $ 191,383 $ 178,420 $ 164,930 debt automotive sector $ 13,824 $ 15,683 $ 14,256 $ 13,094 $ 19,077 financial services sector 105,347 99,005 90,802 86,595 85,112 intersector elimination (a) (201 ) (201 ) total debt $ 119,171 $ 114,688 $ 105,058 $ 99,488 $ 103,988 total equity/(deficit) $ 24,832 $ 26,145 $ 15,686 $ 14,821 $ (993 ) __________ (a) debt related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities. 27 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview revenue our automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories; we generally treat sales and marketing incentives as a reduction to revenue. revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. when we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: material excluding commodity costs - primarily reflecting the change in cost of purchased parts used in the assembly of our vehicles. commodity costs - reflecting the change in cost for raw materials (such as steel, aluminum, and resins) used in the manufacture of our products. structural costs - reflecting the change in costs that generally do not have a directly proportionate relationship to our production volumes, such as labor costs, including pension and health care; other costs related to the development and manufacture of our vehicles; depreciation and amortization; and advertising and sales promotion costs. warranty and other costs - reflecting the change in cost related to warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions, as well as the change in freight and other costs related to the distribution of our vehicles and support for the sale and distribution of parts and accessories. while material (including commodity), freight, and warranty costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2014 was $133.8 billion. material costs (including commodity costs) make up the largest portion of our automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2014 about two-thirds of the total amount. of the remaining balance of our automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve has ended financial asset purchases, and the resulting shifts in capital flows have contributed to downward pressure on several emerging market currencies. in some cases that pressure is aggravated by high inflation, unstable policy environments, or both. additionally, the yen and euro have depreciated as a result of policy changes by the bank of japan, and european central bank. the weak yen, in particular, adds significant potential downward pressure on vehicle pricing across many markets globally. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. however, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 116 million units exceeded global production by about 29 million units in 2014. in north america and europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production in 2014 was an estimated 7% and 30%, respectively. in china, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 45% of production in 2014, as manufacturers competed to capitalize on china's future market potential. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 32 million units per year during the period from 2015 to 2019. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly- 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price changes. the price of oil fell sharply in the second half of 2014, to below $50 per barrel, as demand was weaker than anticipated and global supply remained strong. other commodity prices also have declined recently, but over the longer term prices are likely to trend higher given expectations for global demand growth. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 140% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. as we execute our one ford plan, we are working to create best-in-class vehicles on global platforms that contribute higher margins, and offering a more balanced portfolio of vehicles with which we aim to be among the leaders in fuel efficiency in every segment in which we compete. increasing sales of smaller vehicles . like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india, and china, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets. the largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., sub-b, b, and c segments). to increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are significantly increasing our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures. although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles. trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade. while we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. in asia pacific africa, for example, the recent dramatic depreciation of the yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers. over a period of time, the emerging weakness of the yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. as another example, government actions in south america to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. during 2014, mature market government bond yields and inflation were lower than expected, and there is a rising risk of persistent disinflation and, in some markets, even outright deflation. the lower levels of inflation and interest rates were unexpected partially because they have occurred against a backdrop of loose monetary policy and high levels of mature market deficits and debt. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may still drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. for additional information on our assessment of the business environment, refer to the outlook section below. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies our priorities are: (1) accelerate the pace of progress of our one ford plan, (2) deliver product excellence with passion, and (3) drive innovation in every part of our business. accelerate the pace of progress of our one ford plan our first priority is to accelerate the pace of progress of our one ford plan. the one ford plan has been fundamental to the progress we have made in recent years, and it is fundamental to our performance going forward. in many ways we are starting to see the full benefits and strength of the one ford plan, and we see an opportunity to accelerate our pace of progress to drive operational excellence and profitable growth for all. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) deliver product excellence with passion our second priority is to deliver product excellence with passion. products are the lifeblood of our business and our one ford plan has allowed us to field the best product line-up we have ever had and one of the freshest. in 2014, we launched 24 all-new or significantly refreshed products globally, including the all-new f-150, mustang, escort, ka, transit, and lincoln mkc. our momentum will continue in 2015 with 15 new global product launches. our strategy is to serve customers in all markets with a full family of best in class vehicles small, medium and large; cars, utilities and trucks; each delivering the highest quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design, and value and delivering profitable growth for all. the fundamentals of our global product plan have not changed. our vision is to produce vehicles that: have bold, emotive exterior designs are great to drive are great to sit in (second home comfort, convenience, exceptional quietness) provide fuel economy as a reason to buy are instantly recognizable in look, sound, and feel provide exceptional value and quality 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our one ford global product development process utilizes global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across global markets. we continue to make progress on our commitment to consolidate platforms. we now have 12 global platforms, and we are on track to have nine global platforms in 2016, with almost 100% of our global vehicle volume coming off the nine global platforms. we are able to reinvest the savings resulting from of our platform consolidation back into product development to introduce more products at a faster product cadence; our cumulative refresh rate for the 2015 to 2019 period is expected to be the best in the industry. over 50% of our global volume in 2015 will be from vehicles launched in 2014 and 2015. these launches help set up our next stage of growth, and this will drive revenue and profit growth. we have made substantial progress recently with the quality of our vehicles. our latest things gone wrong data shows that our quality is back on track in north america and south america, and is at best-ever levels in europe and asia pacific. areas such as infotainment, transmissions, and interiors have shown significant improvement as a result of focusing our effort to close the gap versus industry averages. we also are working to improve our global product development system to ensure the process improvements we make flow through to more robust launches, less downstream changes, improved timing, and eventually further improve our quality. as a result of these efforts and the migration to our high quality global platforms, customer satisfaction is trending up across all regions. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) drive innovation in every part of our business our third priority is to drive innovation in every part of our business. our industry is rapidly evolving, and new technology is having a significant impact on our business. we are a technology leader providing innovations consumers demand today while developing affordable, accessible solutions to help meet the needs of future transportation. our approach to innovation is to employ an innovation mindset by asking questions, challenging customs, and taking intelligent risks all across the company, in every part of the business. innovation is driven by individuals and teams that find new ways to approach existing problems in a quest to make the world a better place. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we are always looking ahead and developing affordable, accessible solutions to help meet the needs of future transportation. our blueprint for mobility, announced in 2012, set near-, mid- and long-term goals for solutions to the challenges facing mobility systems now and in the future as the world becomes more populated and urbanized. it highlights our thinking about what transportation will look like in 2025 and beyond, and identifies the types of technologies, business models, products, and partnerships needed to get us there. in the near-term, we are bringing together partners and communities to think beyond the vehicles. we are researching technology and using human ingenuity to locate open parking spaces in crowded cities; make car-sharing easier; move vehicles across cities with remote control; use vehicles and bicycles to gather information about traffic and parking conditions; and even help make health care more accessible in rural areas. in the mid-term, we are targeting additional semi-autonomous driving technologies and the emergence of integrated networks. in the long-term, the landscape could look radically different. connected traffic networks and smart vehicles capable of automated navigation are likely to bring about new business models and contribute to improved personal mobility. we are advancing the development of semi-autonomous technologies that have the potential to make driving safer, provide a more convenient driving experience, and ease traffic congestion. we are already manufacturing and selling vehicles with driver-assist technologies, such as: pre-collision assist with pedestrian detection uses a camera and radar to help reduce the severity of, or even eliminate, some frontal collisions involving vehicles and pedestrians. the pre-collision assist helps drivers avoid frontal collisions with other vehicles at all speeds, while pedestrian detection helps drivers avoid pedestrians at lower speeds. active park assist uses ultrasonic sensors and electric power-assisted steering to help drivers parallel park. the sensors measure the gap between two vehicles to determine if there is enough room for the vehicle. after confirming the vehicle can fit, the vehicle automatically steers into the space, while the driver operates the accelerator and brake pedals . 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) adaptive cruise control / collision warning with brake support uses a radar sensor in the front of the vehicle to measure the distance and speed of vehicles ahead. using this information, the vehicle can automatically slow to keep a consistent following distance set by the driver. the slower speed will be maintained if adaptive cruise control is activated. collision warning triggers visual and audio alerts if the system detects the following distance is diminishing too quickly and a collision may occur. it also pre-charges the brakes if the driver needs to stop suddenly . lane keeping uses a camera to help prevent the driver from drifting outside of the intended driving lane. the system automatically detects the left- or right- hand road lane markings. an alert, such as a vibration in the steering wheel , is used to warn the driver. the system can also provide steering torque to help guide the vehicle back into the lane if needed . enhanced active park assist uses ultrasonic sensors to help the driver reverse into a space side-to-side with other cars, and for ease of parking going into and out of parking spaces. and we are researching many automated assist technologies, including traffic jam assist , a further building block toward automated driving in the future. 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations total company our net income attributable to ford motor company was $3.2 billion or $0.80 per share of common and class b stock in 2014, a decline of $4 billion or $0.97 per share from 2013. total company results are shown below: 2014 2013 2012 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) income pre-tax results (excl. special items) $ 6,282 $ 8,608 $ 7,884 special items (1,940 ) (1,568 ) (246 ) pre-tax results (incl. special items) 4,342 7,040 7,638 (provision for)/benefit from income taxes (1,156 ) 135 (2,026 ) net income 3,186 7,175 5,612 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) (7 ) (1 ) net income attributable to ford $ 3,187 $ 7,182 $ 5,613 net income includes certain items ( special items ) that we have grouped into personnel and dealer-related items and other items to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items. the first category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities. the second category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. as detailed in note 24 of the notes to the financial statements, we allocate special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and other automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments. the following table details automotive sector pre-tax special items in each category: 2014 2013 2012 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) personnel and dealer-related items separation-related actions (a) $ (685 ) $ (856 ) $ (481 ) mercury discontinuation/other dealer actions (71 ) total personnel and dealer-related items (685 ) (856 ) (552 ) other items venezuela accounting change (800 ) ford sollers equity impairment (329 ) 2016 convertible notes settlement (126 ) u.s. pension lump-sum program (594 ) (250 ) fcta -- subsidiary liquidation (103 ) (4 ) ford romania consolidation loss (15 ) cfma restructuring 625 loss on sale of two component businesses (174 ) aai consolidation 136 other (27 ) total other items (1,255 ) (712 ) 306 total special items $ (1,940 ) $ (1,568 ) $ (246 ) __________ (a) for 2014 and 2013, primarily related to separation costs for personnel at the genk and u.k. facilities. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) not shown in the table above are tax benefits of $494 million, $2.2 billion, and $315 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, that we consider to be special items. for 2013, these included the impact of a favorable increase in deferred tax assets related to investments in our european operations and the release of valuation allowances held against u.s. state and local deferred tax assets. discussion of automotive sector, financial services sector, and total company results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis and excludes special items unless otherwise specifically noted. references to records by automotive segments north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific are since at least 2000 when we began reporting specific business unit results. the chart below shows 2014 pre-tax results by sector: both the automotive and financial services sectors contributed to the company's 2014 pre-tax profit of $6.3 billion. the decline in profit, compared with 2013, was more than explained by automotive sector results. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive sector in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive pre-tax operating profit for our total automotive sector and reportable segments using the causal factors listed below, with revenue and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix - primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, and special lease offers contribution costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs other costs - primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these include mainly structural costs, described below, as well as all other costs, which include items such as litigation costs and costs related to our after-market parts, accessories, and service business. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing and engineering - consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing- and engineering-related personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), new product launch expense, prototype materials, and outside engineering services spending-related - consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions - includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling - includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb - consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange - primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging net interest and other net interest - primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in our automotive sector's centrally-managed net interest, which consists of interest expense, interest income, fair market value adjustments on our cash equivalents and marketable securities portfolio (excluding our investment in mazda), and other adjustments other - items not included in the causal factors defined above 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 compared with 2013 total automotive. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume was about equal to a year ago. automotive sector revenue was lower than a year ago by 3%, more than explained by lower volume from consolidated operations and unfavorable exchange. operating margin, at 3.9%, and pre-tax profit, at $4.5 billion, were also lower. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) lower pre-tax profit was driven by the americas; all other business units improved. higher costs, including warranty, unfavorable exchange, and lower volume, including product launch effects and supplier parts shortages, more than explain the decline. higher net pricing was a partial offset. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2014 and 2013 was $133.8 billion and $135.2 billion, respectively, a difference of $1.4 billion. an explanation of the change is shown below (in billions): 2014 lower/(higher) 2013 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ 2.9 contribution costs (a) material/freight 0.8 warranty (1.3 ) other costs (a) structural costs (1.7 ) other (0.1 ) special items 0.8 total $ 1.4 _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income before income taxes are shown below for 2014. in 2014, automotive pre-tax profit was driven by profits in north america and record results in asia pacific. middle east &amp; africa was about breakeven, while europe and south america incurred large losses as expected. other automotive primarily reflects net interest expense. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. north america continued to benefit from robust industry sales, our strong product line-up, continued discipline in matching production to demand, and a lean cost structure. as shown above, north america's full-year wholesale volume and revenue both declined 5% compared with 2013. operating margin was 8.4%, 1.8 percentage points lower than a year ago, while pre-tax profit was $6.9 billion, down $1.9 billion. for the full year, total u.s. market share was down 1 percentage point, primarily reflecting lower f-150 share as we prepared for the all-new vehicle by balancing share with transaction prices and stocks, as well as a planned reduction in daily rental sales. u.s. retail share of retail industry was down 0.6 percentage points . 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2014 compared with 2013 is more than explained by lower volume and higher warranty costs, including recalls. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. in south america, we are continuing to execute our strategy of expanding our product line-up, including replacing legacy products with global one ford offerings. we also are continuing to manage the effects of slowing gdp growth, lower industry volumes in our larger markets, weaker currencies, high inflation, as well as policy uncertainty in some countries. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue deteriorated from a year ago by 14% and 19%, respectively. operating margin was negative 13.2%, and the pre-tax loss was $1.2 billion, both deteriorated from a year ago. the deterioration in all metrics was driven by unfavorable changes in the external factors mentioned above. 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2014 compared with 2013 is more than explained by unfavorable exchange, higher costs (primarily driven by higher inflation), and lower volume, offset partially by favorable net pricing. the higher net pricing reflects partial recovery of the adverse effects of high local inflation and weaker local currencies, along with pricing associated with our new products. the full year loss includes $426 million of adverse balance sheet exchange effects, related primarily to the devaluation of the venezuela bolivar in the first quarter. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. the improvement in europe's 2014 results, as shown above, reflect our continued implementation of our transformation plan focused on product, brand, and cost. europe's full-year wholesale volume and revenue were up 5% and 8%, respectively, from a year ago. operating margin was negative 3.6% and the pre-tax loss was $1.1 billion, both improved from a year ago. europe 20 full-year market share, at 8.0%, was up 0.2 percentage points, more than explained by a 1.4 percentage point improvement in our commercial vehicle share, to 11.4%, reflecting the success of our full line of new transit vehicles and continued strong performance of the ranger compact pick-up. for the year, europe retail share of the retail passenger car industry for the five major markets was 8.2%, unchanged from a year ago. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the improvement in pre-tax results is more than explained by higher volume and lower cost, offset partially by russia and other factors, including lower component pricing and parts and accessories profits. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) middle east &amp; africa segment. the following chart details the key metrics. in middle east &amp; africa we are focused on building our distribution capability, expanding our one ford product offering tailored to the needs of markets in the region, and leveraging global low-cost sourcing hubs for vehicles in this fast growing region. middle east &amp; africa's full-year wholesale volume and revenue were down 4% and 3%, respectively, from a year ago. operating margin was negative 0.5% and the pre-tax loss was $20 million, both improved from a year ago. the improvement in pre-tax results is more than explained by higher net pricing and favorable mix. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. our strategy in asia pacific is to invest in growth through both new and expanded plants, new products, and the introduction of lincoln in china. as shown above, all full year metrics improved from a year ago and all were records. wholesale volume improved 13% compared with a year ago, while revenue, which excludes our china joint ventures, improved 5%. our wholesale volume in china, not shown, was up 19%. operating margin was 5.5%, up 2.3 percentage points, and pre-tax profit was $589 million, up $262 million. as shown in the memo, our china joint ventures contributed $1.3 billion to pre-tax profit in 2014, reflecting our equity share of earnings after tax. the balance of results for the region primarily reflect australia where we are implementing our transformation plan; india where we are investing for future growth, including the launch of two plants later this year; and industry and economic factors in asean. our market share in the region was a record 3.5% for the full year, up by 0.2 percentage points compared with 2013. the improvement was driven by china, where our market share for the full year rose to a record 4.5%, up by 0.4 percentage points compared with 2013, reflecting continued strong sales across our vehicle line-up . 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the improvement in 2014 pre-tax results primarily reflects favorable market factors, offset partially by higher costs, including investments to support future growth, and unfavorable exchange. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2013 compared with 2012 total automotive. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue for the automotive sector were higher than a year ago by 12% and 10%, respectively. operating margin, at 5.4%, and pre-tax profit, at $6.9 billion, were also higher. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) higher pre-tax profit primarily reflects favorable marketable factors across all regions, offset partially by higher costs, mainly structural, and unfavorable exchange, principally in south america. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2013 and 2012 was $135.2 billion and $122.1 billion, respectively, a difference of $13.1 billion. an explanation of the change is shown below (in billions): 2013 better/(worse) 2012 explanation of change: volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (8.6 ) contribution costs (a) commodity costs (incl. hedging) 0.2 material costs excluding commodity costs (0.6 ) warranty/freight (0.4 ) other costs (a) structural costs (2.8 ) other (0.3 ) special items (0.6 ) total $ (13.1 ) _________ (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items. results by automotive segment. details by segment of income before income taxes are shown below for 2013. in 2013, automotive pre-tax profit was the highest in more than a decade, with record profits in north america and asia pacific africa, an about breakeven result in south america, and a lower loss in europe than last year. other automotive reflects net interest expense, offset partially by a favorable fair market value adjustment of our investment in mazda. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. as shown above, north america's full-year wholesale volume and revenue both improved 11% compared with 2012. operating margin was 9.9%, 0.5 percentage points lower than a year ago, while pre-tax profit was $8.8 billion, up about $400 million. for the full year, total u.s. market share was up 0.5 percentage points, more than explained by f-series and fusion, and u.s. retail share of retail industry was up 0.4 percentage points, more than explained by f-series, escape, and fusion. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the increase in pre-tax profit for 2013 compared with 2012 is more than explained by favorable market factors, offset partially by higher costs, mainly structural and warranty costs. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue both improved 8% compared with last year. operating margin was negative 0.3%, and the pre-tax loss was $34 million, both lower than positive results a year ago. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2013 compared with 2012 is more than explained by higher costs and unfavorable exchange, offset partially by favorable market factors. the higher net pricing reflects partial recovery of the adverse effects of high local inflation and weaker local currencies, along with pricing associated with our new products. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. europe's full-year wholesale volume and revenue were up less than 1% and 5%, respectively, from a year ago. operating margin was negative 5.8% and the pre-tax loss was $1.6 billion, both improved from a year ago despite higher restructuring costs of about $400 million, lower industry volume, and unfavorable exchange. europe's full-year market share, at 7.8%, was down 0.1 percentage points, mainly reflecting low availability of mondeo, s-max, and galaxy in the first quarter. for the year, total europe retail share of the retail passenger car industry was up one percentage point, primarily due to b-max and fiesta. our commercial vehicle market share for the full year, at 9.2%, was up 0.7 percentage points compared with the prior year, our highest share since 2007. in 2013, ford was the fastest-growing commercial vehicle brand, and transit nameplate was the leader in the commercial van segment. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the improvement in pre-tax results is explained by favorable market factors, offset partially by higher costs and unfavorable exchange. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific africa segment. the following two charts detail the key metrics and the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue improved 30% and 17%, respectively, compared with a year ago. operating margin was 3.5% and pre-tax profit was $415 million, both substantially improved from last year's results. our market share in the region was a record 3.5% for the full year, up by 0.7 percentage points compared with 2012. the improvement was driven by china, where our market share for the full year rose to a record 4.1%, up by 0.9 percentage points compared with 2012. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the improvement in 2013 pre-tax results is explained by favorable market factors and other items, including higher royalties from our joint ventures and insurance recoveries, offset partially by higher costs associated with investments to support future growth, and unfavorable exchange. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector as shown in the total company discussion above, we present our financial services sector results in two segments, ford credit and other financial services. ford credit, in turn, has two operations, north america and international. in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below: volume: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average finance receivables and net investment in operating leases at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin). volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding for the purchase of retail installment sale and lease contracts and to provide wholesale financing. financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average receivables. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average receivables for the same period. financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management. credit loss: credit loss measures changes in the provision for credit losses. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses primarily into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses. net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information on the allowance for credit losses, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section below. lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation. residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold, and changes in the estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term. for additional information on accumulated supplemental depreciation, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section below. other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, and insurance expenses. changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts. in general, other revenue changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates), which are included in unallocated risk management, and other miscellaneous items. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 compared with 2013 ford credit. the chart below details the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. ford credit is a strategic asset and an integral part of our global growth and value creation strategy. ford credit provides world-class dealer and customer financial services, supported by a strong balance sheet, providing solid profits and distributions to ford. the improvement of $98 million in pre-tax profit in 2014 compared with 2013 is more than explained by higher volume, driven by increases in consumer and non-consumer finance receivables globally, as well as an increase in operating leases in north america. partial offsets include unfavorable lease residual performance in north america, resulting from lower relative auction values, and lower financing margin. the lower financing margin primarily reflects a one-time reserve in europe and lower portfolio pricing in north america . 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's receivables, including finance receivables and operating leases, at december 31 were as follows (in billions): 2014 2013 net receivables finance receivables - north america consumer - retail financing $ 44.1 $ 40.9 non-consumer dealer financing (a) 22.5 22.1 other 1.0 1.0 total finance receivables - north america (b) 67.6 64.0 finance receivables - international consumer - retail financing 11.8 10.8 non-consumer dealer financing (a) 9.3 8.3 other 0.3 0.4 total finance receivables - international (b) 21.4 19.5 unearned interest supplements (1.8 ) (1.5 ) allowance for credit losses (0.3 ) (0.4 ) finance receivables, net 86.9 81.6 net investment in operating leases (b) 21.5 18.3 total net receivables $ 108.4 $ 99.9 managed receivables total net receivables $ 108.4 $ 99.9 unearned interest supplements and residual support 3.9 3.1 allowance for credit losses 0.4 0.4 other, primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation 0.1 total managed receivables $ 112.8 $ 103.4 __________ (a) dealer financing primarily includes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory. (b) at december 31, 2014 and 2013, includes consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $24.4 billion and $27.7 billion, respectively, and non-consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $21.8 billion and $23.9 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's financial statements. in addition, at december 31, 2014 and 2013, includes net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses of $9.6 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively, that have been included in securitization transactions but continue to be reported in ford credit's financial statements. the receivables and net investment in operating leases are available only for payment of the debt issue by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding securitization transactions. managed receivables at december 31, 2014 increased from year-end 2013, driven by increases in consumer and non-consumer finance receivables in all operations and operating leases in north america . 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2013 compared with 2012 ford credit. the chart below details the change in 2013 pre-tax results compared with 2012 by causal factor. the improvement of $59 million is more than explained by higher volume, primarily in north america, driven by an increase in leasing reflecting changes in ford's marketing programs, as well as higher non-consumer finance receivables due to higher dealer stocks. partial offsets are higher credit losses due to lower credit loss reserve reductions in all operations, and unfavorable residual performance related to lower than expected auction values in north america. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by generating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding. we target to have an average ongoing automotive gross cash balance of about $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to (i) future cash flow expectations such as for pension contributions, debt maturities, capital investments, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. in addition, we also target to maintain a revolving credit facility for our automotive business of about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. our revolving credit facility is discussed below. we assess the appropriate long-term target for total automotive liquidity, comprised of automotive gross cash and the revolving credit facility, to be about $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. our automotive gross cash and automotive liquidity targets could be reduced over time based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. for a discussion of risks to our liquidity, see item 1a. risk factors, as well as note 27 of the notes to the financial statements, regarding commitments and contingencies that could impact our liquidity. our key liquidity metrics are automotive gross cash, automotive liquidity, and operating-related cash flow (which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash). automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, net of any securities-in-transit. automotive gross cash is detailed below as of the dates shown (in billions): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 cash and cash equivalents $ 4.6 $ 5.0 $ 6.2 marketable securities 17.1 20.1 18.2 total cash and marketable securities (gaap) 21.7 25.1 24.4 securities-in-transit (a) (0.3 ) (0.1 ) gross cash $ 21.7 $ 24.8 $ 24.3 __________ (a) the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and a payable or receivable was recorded on the balance sheet. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated a-1/p-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments ranges from about 90 days to up to about one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. of our total automotive gross cash at december 31, 2014, 89% was held by consolidated entities domiciled in the united states. automotive gross cash and liquidity as of the dates shown were as follows (in billions): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 gross cash $ 21.7 $ 24.8 $ 24.3 available credit lines revolving credit facility, unutilized portion 10.1 10.7 9.5 local lines available to foreign affiliates, unutilized portion 0.6 0.7 0.7 automotive liquidity $ 32.4 $ 36.2 $ 34.5 in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive gross cash into operating-related and other items (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions, acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the financial services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other primarily financing-related). 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash. this differs from a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ) and differs from net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities , the most directly comparable gaap financial measure. changes in automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions): 2014 2013 2012 gross cash at end of period $ 21.7 $ 24.8 $ 24.3 gross cash at beginning of period 24.8 24.3 22.9 change in gross cash $ (3.1 ) $ 0.5 $ 1.4 automotive pre-tax profits (excluding special items) $ 4.5 $ 6.9 $ 6.3 capital spending (7.4 ) (6.6 ) (5.5 ) depreciation and tooling amortization 4.3 4.1 3.7 changes in working capital (a) (0.3 ) (0.4 ) (2.3 ) other/timing differences (b) 2.5 2.1 1.2 automotive operating-related cash flows 3.6 6.1 3.4 separation payments (0.2 ) (0.3 ) (0.4 ) net receipts from financial services sector (c) 0.6 0.4 0.7 other (d) (0.8 ) 0.4 1.1 cash flow before other actions 3.2 6.6 4.8 changes in debt (0.9 ) 0.7 0.9 funded pension contributions (1.5 ) (5.0 ) (3.4 ) dividends/other items (e) (3.9 ) (1.8 ) (0.9 ) change in gross cash $ (3.1 ) $ 0.5 $ 1.4 _________ (a) working capital comprised of changes in receivables, inventory, and trade payables. (b) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, compensation, marketing, warranty, and timing differences between unconsolidated affiliate profits and dividends received. also includes other factors, such as the impact of tax payments and vehicle financing activities between automotive and fsg sectors. (c) primarily distributions from ford holdings (ford credit's parent) and tax payments received from ford credit. (d) 2014 includes one-time unfavorable cash effect associated with the accounting change for our operations in venezuela; 2012 includes cash and marketable securities resulting from the consolidation of aai. (e) in 2014, we used about $2 billion in cash to settle repurchases of approximately 116 million shares of ford common stock. with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive sector trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. in addition, these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), as of the dates shown (in billions): 2014 2013 2012 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities $ 8.8 $ 7.7 $ 6.3 items included in operating-related cash flows capital spending (7.4 ) (6.6 ) (5.5 ) proceeds from the exercise of stock options 0.2 0.3 net cash flows from non-designated derivatives 0.2 (0.3 ) (0.8 ) items not included in operating-related cash flows separation payments 0.2 0.3 0.4 funded pension contributions 1.5 5.0 3.4 tax refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates (0.2 ) (0.3 ) (0.1 ) settlement of outstanding obligation with affiliates (0.3 ) other 0.3 operating-related cash flows $ 3.6 $ 6.1 $ 3.4 credit agreement . lenders under our second amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2014 (the revolving credit facility ) have commitments to us totaling $12.2 billion, with about $9 billion maturing on april 30, 2019 and about $3 billion maturing on april 30, 2017. we have allocated $2 billion of commitments to ford credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its liquidity. any borrowings by ford credit under the revolving credit facility would be guaranteed by us. the revolving credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the revolving credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the revolving credit facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p (each as defined under total company below), the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. at december 31, 2014, the utilized portion of the revolving credit facility was $58 million, representing amounts utilized as letters of credit. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program. in september 2009, we entered into a loan arrangement and reimbursement agreement ( arrangement agreement ) with the doe, under which we borrowed through multiple draws $5.9 billion to finance certain costs for fuel-efficient, advanced-technology vehicles. at december 31, 2014, an aggregate of $4.4 billion was outstanding. the principal amount of the atvm loan bears interest at a blended rate based on the u.s. treasury yield curve at the time each draw was made (with the weighted-average interest rate on all such draws being about 2.3% per annum). the atvm loan is repayable in equal quarterly installments of $148 million, which began in september 2012 and will end in june 2022. european investment bank ( eib ) loans. on december 21, 2009, ford romania, our operating subsidiary in romania, entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 400 million (equivalent to $486 million at december 31, 2014) with the eib (the eib romania facility ), and on july 12, 2010, ford motor company limited, our operating subsidiary in the united kingdom, entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 450 million (equivalent to $701 million at december 31, 2014) with the eib (the eib united kingdom facility ). the facilities were fully drawn at december 31, 2014. loans under the eib romania facility and the eib united kingdom facility bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.44% and 4% per annum, respectively, and mature on march 31, 2015 and september 11, 2015, respectively. other automotive credit facilities. at december 31, 2014, we had $822 million of local credit facilities available to non-u.s. automotive affiliates, of which $175 million had been utilized. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) net cash. our automotive sector net cash calculation as of the dates shown was as follows (in billions): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 gross cash $ 21.7 $ 24.8 $ 24.3 less: long-term debt 11.3 14.4 12.9 debt payable within one year 2.5 1.3 1.4 total debt 13.8 15.7 14.3 net cash $ 7.9 $ 9.1 $ 10.0 total debt at december 31, 2014 was $1.9 billion lower than december 31, 2013, primarily reflecting four quarterly installment payments on the atvm loan which totaled about $600 million, the repayment of a $300 million u.s. export-import bank loan, and the conversion into ford common stock of $882 million of outstanding convertible debt, which resulted in a debt reduction of about $800 million. we expect to reduce automotive debt levels to about $10 billion by 2018. we plan to achieve the debt reduction by 2018 by using cash from operations to make quarterly installment payments on the atvm loan and repay the eib loans and other debt at maturity. pension plan contributions and strategy. worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $9 billion at december 31, 2014, unchanged from december 31, 2013, despite significantly lower discount rates, which were offset by asset returns, contributions, and favorable exchange. the u.s. weighted-average discount rate decreased 80 basis points to 3.94% at year-end 2014 from 4.74% at year-end 2013. the non-u.s. weighted average discount rate decreased 101 basis points to 3.06% at year-end 2014 from 4.07% at year-end 2013. of the $9 billion underfunded status at year-end 2014, $6.5 billion, or about 70%, is associated with our unfunded plans. our long-term strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. the key elements of this strategy include: limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants; reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions; progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation to be reached over the next few years of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as the voluntary lump sum payout program completed in 2013 for u.s. salaried retirees. in 2014, we contributed $1.5 billion to our global funded pension plans (most of which were mandatory contributions), a decrease of $3.5 billion compared with 2013, reflecting our improved funded status. during 2015, we expect to contribute $1.1 billion from automotive cash and cash equivalents to our global funded pension plans outside the united states (most of which will be mandatory contributions). we also expect to make about $400 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of $1.5 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. pension plans in 2015. asset returns in 2014 for our u.s. plans were 16.4% and 15.7 % for our non-u.s plans, reflecting fixed income gains as interest rates fell, as well as strong growth asset returns. we have continued to progressively increase the mix of fixed income assets in our u.s. plans with the objective of reducing funded status volatility. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2014 was 77%, up from 70% at year-end 2013. the u.s. plans were 97% funded at year end 2014. as shown under critical accounting estimates pension plans, this strategy has reduced the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates. based on present planning assumptions for asset returns, discount rates, and planned cash contributions, we expect our global funded pension obligations to be fully funded by year-end 2016, with variability on a plan-by-plan basis. contributions to our global funded plans in 2016 are expected to be about $1.5 billion, including both required and discretionary contributions. after 2016, we expect contributions to these plans to be limited to ongoing service cost of about $500 million per year. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity sufficiency . one of the four key priorities of our one ford plan is to finance our plan and improve our balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business. the actions described above are consistent with this priority. based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. based on expected cash flows and the identification of additional opportunities for profitable growth, the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, restructuring, and infrastructure is expected to increase to about $9 billion annually by 2020. our capital spending was $7.4 billion and $6.6 billion in 2014 and 2013, respectively, and is expected to be about $7.5 billion in 2015. we will continue to work to strengthen further our balance sheet and improve our investment grade ratings; the amount of incremental capital required to do this will diminish over time as we achieve our target debt levels and fully fund and de-risk our global funded pension plans. financial services sector ford credit funding strategy. ford credit's primary funding and liquidity objective is to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet with adequate liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit's liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. ford credit regularly stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it continues to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). ford credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states and other international markets. at december 31, 2014, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $5.6 billion. at december 31, 2014, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was $1.7 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding portfolio. the chart below details the trends in the funding of ford credit's managed receivables: at year-end 2014, managed receivables were $113 billion, and ford credit ended the year with about $9 billion in cash. securitized funding was 38% of managed receivables, down from 44% at year-end 2013, reflecting a greater mix of unsecured debt . ford credit is projecting 2015 year-end managed receivables of $123 billion to $128 billion and securitized funding as a percentage of managed receivables in the range of 36% to 38%. ford credit expects this percentage will continue to decline over time. public term funding plan. the following table shows ford credit's planned issuances for full-year 2015, and its global public term funding issuances in 2014, 2013, and 2012 (in billions), excluding short-term funding programs: public term funding plan 2015 forecast 2014 2013 2012 unsecured $ 12-15 $ 13 $ 11 $ 9 securitizations (a) 13-16 15 14 14 total $ 25-31 $ 28 $ 25 $ 23 __________ (a) includes rule 144a offerings. in 2014, ford credit completed $28 billion of public term funding in the united states, canada, europe, brazil, mexico, and china, including about $13 billion of unsecured debt. for 2015, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $25 billion to $31 billion. through february 12, 2015, ford credit has completed $6.3 billion of public term funding in the united states and europe. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the following table shows ford credit's liquidity programs and utilization (in billions): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 liquidity sources cash (a) $ 8.9 $ 10.8 $ 10.9 committed asset-backed security ( abs ) lines (b) 33.7 29.4 24.3 fcar bank lines 3.5 6.3 fce/other unsecured credit facilities 1.6 1.6 0.9 ford revolving credit facility allocation 2.0 total liquidity sources $ 46.2 $ 45.3 $ 42.4 utilization of liquidity securitization cash (c) $ (2.4 ) $ (4.4 ) $ (3.0 ) committed abs lines (15.3 ) (14.7 ) (12.3 ) fcar bank lines (3.3 ) (5.8 ) fce/other unsecured credit facilities (0.4 ) (0.4 ) (0.1 ) ford revolving credit facility allocation total utilization of liquidity (18.1 ) (22.8 ) (21.2 ) gross liquidity 28.1 22.5 21.2 adjustments (d) (1.6 ) (1.1 ) (1.5 ) net liquidity available for use $ 26.5 $ 21.4 $ 19.7 __________ (a) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (b) committed abs lines are subject to availability of sufficient assets and ability to obtain derivatives to manage interest rate risk. (c) used only to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. (d) adjustments include other committed abs lines in excess of eligible receivables and certain cash within fordrev available through future sales of receivables. at december 31, 2014, ford credit had total liquidity sources of $46.2 billion compared with total liquidity sources of $45.3 billion at december 31, 2013. its liquidity sources of committed capacity and cash are diversified across a variety of markets and platforms. the utilization of its liquidity totaled $18.1 billion at year-end 2014, compared with $22.8 billion at year-end 2013. the decrease of $4.7 billion reflects lower securitization cash and usage of its unsecured credit facilities. ford credit ended 2014 with gross liquidity of $28.1 billion. after adjustments totaling $1.6 billion, total liquidity available for use continues to remain strong at $26.5 billion at year-end 2014, $5.1 billion higher than year-end 2013. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. ford credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity. the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 total debt (a) $ 105.0 $ 98.7 $ 89.3 equity 11.4 10.6 9.7 financial statement leverage (to 1) 9.2 9.3 9.2 __________ (a) includes debt issued in securitization transactions and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 total debt (a) $ 105.0 $ 98.7 $ 89.3 adjustments for cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (b) (8.9 ) (10.8 ) (10.9 ) adjustments for derivative accounting (c) (0.4 ) (0.2 ) (0.8 ) total adjusted debt $ 95.7 $ 87.7 $ 77.6 equity $ 11.4 $ 10.6 $ 9.7 adjustments for derivative accounting (c) (0.4 ) (0.3 ) (0.3 ) total adjusted equity $ 11.0 $ 10.3 $ 9.4 managed leverage (to 1) (d) 8.7 8.5 8.3 __________ (a) includes debt issued in securitization transactions and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. (b) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. (c) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. (d) equals total adjusted debt over total adjusted equity. ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2014, ford credit's managed leverage was 8.7:1, compared with 8.5:1 at december 31, 2013. in 2015, ford credit expects managed leverage to continue in the range of 8:1 to 9:1. in 2014, ford credit paid $395 million in distributions to its parent, ford holdings llc. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total company equity. at december 31, 2014, total equity attributable to ford motor company was $24.8 billion, a decrease of $1.3 billion compared with december 31, 2013. the decrease primarily reflects unfavorable changes in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) of $1.8 billion (more than explained by unfavorable pension and opeb adjustments); unfavorable changes in treasury stock of about $300 million related to net stock repurchases and re-issuances; and unfavorable changes in capital in excess of par value of stock of about $300 million related to convertible note debt settlement net of compensation-related equity issuances; offset partially by favorable changes in retained earnings of $1.2 billion related to full-year 2014 net income attributable to ford motor company of $3.2 billion, net of cash dividends declared of $2 billion. credit ratings. our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ( dbrs ); fitch, inc. ( fitch ); moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of mcgraw hill financial ( s&amp;p ). in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings assigned to us from all of the nrsros are closely associated with their opinions on ford. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. the following rating actions were taken by these nrsros since september 30, 2014: on october 1, 2014, fitch affirmed its ratings for ford and ford credit, and maintained a positive outlook for both. on october 29, 2014, dbrs affirmed its ratings for ford and ford credit, and maintained a stable outlook for both. on december 16, 2014, moody's affirmed its ratings for ford, and maintained a stable outlook. on january 27, 2015, moody's affirmed its ratings for ford credit, and maintained a stable outlook. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb (low) bbb (low) stable bbb (low) r-3 stable bbb (low) fitch bbb- bbb- positive bbb- f3 positive bbb- moody's n/a baa3 stable baa3 p-3 stable baa3 s&amp;p * bbb- bbb- stable bbb- a-3 stable bbb- __________ * s&amp;p assigns fce a long-term senior unsecured credit rating of bbb, a one-notch higher rating than ford and ford credit, with a stable outlook. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 planning assumptions and key metrics the following summarizes results against planning assumptions and key metrics established at the beginning of 2014: 2013 full year 2014 full year results plan results planning assumptions (mils.) industry volume (a) -- u.s. 15.9 16.0 - 17.0 16.8 -- europe 20 13.8 13.5 - 14.5 14.6 -- china 22.2 22.5 - 24.5 24.0 key metrics automotive (compared with 2013): - revenue (bils.) $ 139.4 about equal $ 135.8 - operating margin (b) 5.4 % lower 3.9 % - operating-related cash flow (bils.) (c) $ 6.1 substantially lower $ 3.6 ford credit (compared with 2013): - pre-tax profit (bils.) $ 1.8 about equal $ 1.9 total company: - pre-tax profit (bils.) (c) $ 8.6 $7 - $8 $ 6.3 __________ (a) based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. (c) excludes special items; reconciliation to gaap for full-year 2013 and 2014 provided in "results of operations" and "liquidity and capital resources," above. full year 2014 total company pre-tax profit result was consistent with our updated guidance of about $6 billion, provided in september 2014. production volumes (a) our 2014 production volumes and first quarter 2015 projected production volumes are as follows (in thousands): 2014 actual 2015 forecast fourth quarter full year first quarter units o/(u) 2013 units o/(u) 2013 units o/(u) 2014 north america 698 (58 ) 2,969 (142 ) 715 (59 ) south america 105 1 399 (75 ) 105 11 europe 328 (5 ) 1,438 (5 ) 440 58 middle east &amp; africa 19 2 76 14 22 5 asia pacific 376 14 1,439 175 385 39 total 1,526 (46 ) 6,321 (33 ) 1,667 54 __________ (a) includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook business environment we project global economic growth to be in the 3% range led by the united states and china. global industry sales are expected to grow to between 88 million and 92 million units after estimated sales of 88 million units in 2014. u.s. economic growth is expected to be in the 3% range. consumer sentiment is improving, along with lower fuel prices, which will boost consumer spending, providing support for growth. south america faces continued market volatility and policy uncertainty. a weak recovery is expected in brazil while argentina and venezuela will remain in recession. in europe, growth in the euro area slowed after the first quarter of 2014, but is projected at just above 1% in 2015. growth in the united kingdom is projected to remain in the 2.5% to 3% range. in russia, the combination of lower oil prices, geo-political events, and ruble depreciation will lead to a sharp decline in gross domestic product and higher inflation. in asia pacific, china's economic growth is projected to be in the 7% to 7.5% range; consumer income growth will support an increase in vehicle sales but at a more moderate pace this year. with some encouraging signs of improvement, growth in india is projected to rise above 6% in 2015, supported by a more favorable policy environment. overall, despite challenges in some key markets, we expect the global economy to grow in 2015 and be supportive of our projection for higher global industry volume this year. total company our 2015 profit outlook by segment is as follows: 2014 full year results 2015 full year outlook automotive (mils.) north america $ 6,898 higher (a) - operating margin 8.4 % 8% - 9% south america (1,162 ) substantially improved (a) europe (1,062 ) improved (a) middle east &amp; africa (20 ) loss asia pacific 589 higher (a) net interest expense (583 ) equal to or higher (a) ford credit (mils.) $ 1,854 equal to or higher (a) __________ (a) compared with 2014 north america we expect north america to be strongly profitable, at a level higher than 2014, with an operating margin of 8% to 9%. this outlook includes higher market share and net pricing, reflecting the impact of launching seven all-new or significantly refreshed products, as well as the effect of the record 16 launches in 2014, many of which occurred late in the year. the f-150 changeover and downtime at our kansas city plant will impact our first quarter 2015 results. south america in south america, pre-tax results are expected to be substantially improved from 2014, but still be a loss. this outlook reflects the continuation of difficult macroeconomic conditions, with industry volume about equal to 2014. we expect higher market share in 2015 as a result of new product introductions, including the all-new ka. we also expect higher net pricing, in part due to the new products, but also to recover, at least in part, the unfavorable effects of weaker currencies and high local inflation. finally, our south america results will not include the operating results of our venezuela operations, including any impact of currency devaluations. europe in europe, pre-tax results are expected to improve from 2014, but still be a loss. this outlook reflects higher market share, volume, and net pricing in the europe 20 markets, despite intense competition across the region, as well as weak economic growth in the euro area. this is updated from our september 2014 investor day guidance of a loss of about $250 million, largely due to uncertainty around conditions in russia, as well as higher pension expense in 2015 as a result of even lower discount rates. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) middle east &amp; africa middle east &amp; africa is expected to deliver a loss somewhat larger than 2014 as we invest for future growth. asia pacific in asia pacific, we expect wholesale volume, market share, and pre-tax profit to be higher than 2014 as we continue to introduce new products and bring online new capacity. net interest expense automotive net interest expense is expected to be equal to or higher than 2014. ford credit ford credit continues to implement its growth plan and expects pre-tax profit to be equal to or higher than 2014. this outlook reflects year-end managed receivables in the range of $123 billion to $128 billion, managed leverage to continue in the range of 8:1 to 9:1, and distributions of about $250 million. 2015 calendarization effects we expect the calendarization of our total company pre-tax results, excluding special items, to be atypical in 2015. historically, the first half of the year is more profitable for us than the second half. in 2015, however, we expect the reverse to be the case due primarily to the following factors: in north america, the all-new f-150 changeover and downtime at the kansas city plant will affect first quarter results. we also will incur costs and lost volume in the first half of the year related to our seven product launches in 2015, including the edge and explorer. we expect to see the benefit of these launches in the second half of 2015. in asia pacific, we are leveraging our global product portfolio to introduce 18 new vehicles in 2015. this will result in lower first half results as we continue to invest in four new plants that will bring new capacity online for the second half of 2015. 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2015 planning assumptions and key metrics based on the current economic environment, our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2015 include the following: 2014 full year results 2015 full year plan planning assumptions (mils.) industry volume (a) -- u.s. 16.8 17.0 - 17.5 -- europe 20 14.6 14.8 - 15.3 -- china 24.0 24.5 - 26.5 key metrics automotive (compared with 2014): - revenue (bils.) $ 135.8 higher - operating margin (b) 3.9 % higher - operating-related cash flow (bils.) (c) $ 3.6 higher ford credit (compared with 2014): - pre-tax profit (bils.) $ 1.9 equal to or higher total company: - pre-tax profit (bils.) (c) $ 6.3 $8.5 - $9.5 __________ (a) based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) automotive operating margin is defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. (c) excludes special items; reconciliation to gaap for full-year 2014 provided in results of operations and liquidity and capital resources above. for 2015, we now expect u.s. industry volume to range from 17 million to 17.5 million units, europe 20 markets to range from 14.8 million to 15.3 million units, and china to range from 24.5 million to 26.5 million units. for our financial metrics, we expect automotive revenue, automotive operating margin, and automotive operating-related cash flow to be higher than 2014. this includes capital spending of about $7.5 billion in 2015. ford credit's pre-tax profit is expected to be equal to or higher than 2014. we expect our operating effective tax rate, which excludes the profits of our unconsolidated subsidiaries, to be about equal to our 2014 rate of 35%, assuming extension of u.s. research credit legislation in the fourth quarter of 2015. we expect total company pre-tax profit, excluding special items, to range from $8.5 billion to $9.5 billion in 2015. overall, we expect very strong growth and substantially improved financial performance in 2015 driven by our investments in new products and capacity. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors; decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products; market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states; an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events; economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors); single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure; substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change; the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts); adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets; cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and field service actions nature of estimates required. we provide warranties on the products we sell. separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. we accrue the estimated cost of both basic warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. assumptions and approach used. we establish estimates for warranty and field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty and field service obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary. warranty coverages vary; therefore, our warranty accruals vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale for specific periods of time and/or mileage. field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the basic warranty coverage period. our best estimate of the obligation related to field service actions includes expected future payments related to vehicles produced in the most recent eight model years and announced field service actions for vehicles produced before this period. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return assumption reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy such as asset mix. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. assumptions are set at each year end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement. the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are recorded as unamortized net gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) on our balance sheet. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. mortality assumptions. as part of the normal management of our defined benefit pension and opeb plans, we consistently review our demographic assumptions and actual experience, including our assumptions for mortality. at year-end 2014, we updated our assumptions for future mortality improvements in our north american defined benefit pension and opeb plans, taking into consideration recent mortality information published by recognized experts in this field, primarily the u.s. society of actuaries and the canadian institute of actuaries. this information was considered, along with the characteristics of our plan-specific populations and other data where appropriate, in developing our best estimate of the expected mortality of plan participants. the impact of this update on our global pension and opeb obligations was not significant and is included in the benefit obligations shown in note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2014 weighted average discount rate was 3.94% for u.s. plans and 3.06% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting decreases of 80 and 101 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2013. in 2014, the u.s. actual return on assets was 16.4%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.89%. non-u.s. actual return on assets was 15.7%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.63%. in total, these differences resulted in a net increase in unamortized losses of about $3 billion which are expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 10 years for our major u.s. plans and 11 years for our major non-u.s. plans). for 2015, the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.75% for u.s. plans and 6.11% for non-u.s. plans, down 14 basis points and 52 basis points, respectively, compared with a year ago, reflecting primarily a higher fixed income allocation . worldwide pension expense, excluding special items, was $1 billion in 2014, $600 million lower than 2013, driven primarily by higher discount rates at year-end 2013 compared with 2012. based on year-end assumptions, we expect 2015 pension expense to be higher compared with 2014, reflecting primarily lower discount rates at year-end 2014 compared with 2013. de-risking strategy . in 2012, we adopted a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. as we de-risk our plans and increase the allocation to fixed income investments over time, we expect the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will be significantly reduced. any change in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2014 pension funded status and 2015 expense are affected by year-end 2014 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our net funded status. the table below estimates the impact as of december 31, 2014 on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point december 31, 2014 funded status factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $5,000/(6,200) $4,700/(5,800) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (4,500)/5,600 (1,900)/2,400 net impact on funded status $500/(600) $2,800/(3,400) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., bond coupon and active management excess returns), growth asset returns and changes in value of related insurance contracts. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. discount rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the table below estimates the impact on 2015 pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point 2015 expense factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate +/- 10 bps. $(35)/40 $(40)/40 expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 10 (40)/40 (20)/20 the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for u.s. opeb plans at december 31, 2014 was 3.86%, compared with 4.65% at december 31, 2013, resulting in an unamortized loss of about $400 million. this amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 12 years). sensitivity analysis. the effect on u.s. and canadian plans of a 100 basis point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would have resulted in a (lower)/higher postretirement benefit expense for 2015 of approximately $(40) million/$40 million, and in the year-end 2014 obligation of approximately $(720) million/$850 million. income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. 83 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $1.6 billion is required, primarily for deferred tax assets related to our south america operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $13.1 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets, and concluded that no valuation allowance is required. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses represents ford credit ' estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date. the adequacy of ford credit's allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables and on operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. the models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit ' present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. therefore, ford credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit's allowance for credit losses is based on assumptions regarding: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. collective allowance for credit losses. the collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to receivables ( ltr ) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. the ltr model is based on the most recent years of history. each ltr is calculated by dividing credit losses by average end-of-period finance receivables or average end-of-period operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and allowance for credit losses. an average ltr is calculated for each product and multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product. ford credit's largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. the loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail or lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to ford credit's active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred. the loss emergence period ( lep ) is a key assumption within ford credit's models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. this time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. it is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. the lep is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. for accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. 84 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) specific allowance for impaired receivables . consumer receivables involved in troubled debt restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln brand retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage point change december 31, 2014 allowance for credit losses 2015 expense repossession ratios (a) +/- 0.1 pt. $33/$(33) $33/$(33) loss severity +/- 1.0 3/(3) 3/(3) __________ (a) reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical ltr ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral. collective allowance for credit losses. ford credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using a ltr model for each financing product based on historical experience. this ltr is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables ltr approach. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. specific allowance for impaired receivables. dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). the loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the provision for credit losses and insurance losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet, in each case under the financial services sector. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. 85 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 6 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln brand operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage change december 31, 2014 accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases 2015 expense future auction values +/- 1.0 $(85)/$85 $(27)/$27 return volumes +/- 1.0 8/(8) 4/(4) the impact of the increased accumulated supplemental depreciation in 2014 would be charged to expense in the 2015 - 2018 periods. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases , in each case under the financial services sector. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted for information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. 86 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2014 (in millions): payments due by period 2015 2016 - 2017 2018 - 2019 2020 and thereafter total automotive sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) $ 2,118 $ 1,587 $ 1,739 $ 8,047 $ 13,491 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 584 1,074 977 7,187 9,822 capital leases 12 20 68 17 117 pension funding (d) 410 417 827 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,649 1,921 843 947 5,360 operating leases 211 283 121 64 679 total automotive sector 4,984 5,302 3,748 16,262 30,296 financial services sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) 25,533 42,291 15,433 10,579 93,836 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 2,294 3,036 1,578 1,317 8,225 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 20 16 27 63 operating leases 57 94 34 19 204 total financial services sector 27,904 45,437 17,072 11,915 102,328 total company $ 32,888 $ 50,739 $ 20,820 $ 28,177 $ 132,624 __________ (a) amount includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $2,128 million for the automotive sector and $25,533 million for the financial services sector for the current portion of long-term debt. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion. (b) automotive sector excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums of $(144) million. financial services sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(55) million and adjustments of $428 million related to designated fair value hedges of the debt. (c) excludes amortization of debt discounts/premiums. (d) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. plans. see note 12 for further information regarding our expected 2015 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2014 of $1.3 billion (see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 6, 12, and 13, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 87 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 88 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk), as of december 31, 2014, was a liability of $130 million compared with an asset of $158 million as of december 31, 2013. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been $2.1 billion at december 31, 2014, compared with $2 billion at december 31, 2013. the sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies. in reality, foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure. see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts). the net fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2014 was a liability of $66 million compared with an asset of $4 million as of december 31, 2013. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be $63 million at december 31, 2014, compared with $70 million at december 31, 2013. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2014, we had $21.7 billion in our automotive investment portfolios, compared to $24.8 billion at december 31, 2013. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $148 million as calculated as of december 31, 2014. this compares to $193 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2013. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk. counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities and market-based credit default swap ( cds ) spreads . the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer-dated exposures . our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. 89 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk - the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; credit risk - the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk - the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and liquidity risk - the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit's overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks. credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are discussed above in item 7. a discussion of ford credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. interest rate risk . generally, ford credit's assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured debt and securitizations. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, ford credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of its assets, in most instances with maturities up to ten years. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a parallel shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more debt and liabilities than assets to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase less than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially decreasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially increase. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. 90 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2014 and 2013 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates) (a) december 31, 2014 $ (46 ) $ 46 december 31, 2013 63 (63 ) _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros, pound sterling, and renminbi. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure, relating to changes in currency exchange rates at december 31, 2014, is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments as of december 31, 2014 was an asset of $692 million, compared to an asset of $79 million as of december 31, 2013.risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, such as occurred during 2008 and 2009, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly developed and emerging markets, particularly in our asia pacific region and our middle east &amp; africa region, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. the success of ford smart mobility, our plan for connectivity, mobility, autonomous vehicles, the customer experience, and data and analytics, likewise depends on many factors, including the amount of capital we invest, advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict that may significantly affect the future of mobility. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. although we have a balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large cars, utilities, and trucks with competitive fuel efficiency, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2015 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 31 million units in 2015. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. concerns persist regarding the sustainability of the european currency area ( euro area ) and of the larger european union, which includes the united kingdom. the pending decision by the u.k. electorate on whether to remain in the european union has exacerbated concerns regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. the exit of the united kingdom from the european union would have less extreme but still significant implications. such scenarios or the perception that such developments are imminent could adversely affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such developments could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, suppliers may continue to exit certain lines of business or close facilities due to economic concerns, management turnover, or other reasons. in such cases, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2015 and will negotiate a new agreement with unifor (formerly the canadian auto workers union) in 2016. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) our qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate a qualified underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our qualified u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). at december 31, 2015, we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2015, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. the renewal is subject to shareholder approval at our annual meeting in may 2016. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may be in tension with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. in addition, the introduction of new and innovative features and technology to our vehicles could increase the risk of defects or customer dissatisfaction. in 2014 and 2015, there was an unprecedented increase in the number of vehicles involved in safety recalls by manufacturers in the united states. the increase reflects nhtsa's continued expansion of its definition of safety defects under the safety act. in addition, nhtsa's enforcement strategy shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. these recall and warranty costs could be exacerbated to the extent they relate to global platforms. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions also could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services . 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles are 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles beginning in the 2018 model year. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the u.s. government has initiated an enforcement action against a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light duty diesel vehicles. the emergence of this issue has led to increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world. this may lead to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. the techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. a significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our third amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2015 and as further amended (the revolving credit facility ), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $13.4 billion. certain of our subsidiaries have standby or revolving credit facilities on which they depend for liquidity. if the financial institutions that provide commitments under the revolving credit facility, our subsidiaries' standby or revolving credit facilities, or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. for example, in march 2013, the cfpb issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes ford credit, take steps to monitor and/or impose controls over dealer discretionary pricing. effective august 31, 2015, the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. in addition, the dodd-frank act provides that a nonbank financial company could be designated a systemically important financial institution by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a nonbank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) insured deposits. the dodd-frank act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the fdic may be appointed as receiver of a nonbank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the dodd-frank act's alternative liquidation framework. in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital and liquidity. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. 3 item 1. business (continued) intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we have approximately 38,500 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just over five years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions. we provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. 4 item 1. business (continued) industry volume, market share, and wholesales our industry volume, market share, and wholesale unit volume in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: industry volume (a) market share (b) wholesales (c) (in millions of units) (as a percentage) (in thousands of units) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 united states 17.8 16.8 15.9 14.7 % 14.7 % 15.7 % 2,677 2,457 2,608 canada 1.9 1.9 1.8 14.4 15.5 15.9 285 288 283 mexico 1.4 1.2 1.1 6.7 6.9 8.0 93 77 91 north america 21.5 20.2 19.1 14.0 14.2 15.2 3,073 2,842 3,006 brazil 2.6 3.5 3.8 10.4 % 9.4 % 9.4 % 250 320 364 argentina 0.6 0.7 0.9 14.8 14.1 12.6 94 94 118 south america 4.2 5.3 5.9 9.6 8.9 8.9 381 463 538 britain 3.1 2.8 2.6 14.3 % 14.4 % 14.6 % 447 425 379 germany 3.5 3.4 3.3 7.3 7.1 6.9 261 237 227 russia 1.6 2.5 2.8 2.4 2.6 3.8 38 57 105 turkey 1.0 0.8 0.9 12.6 11.7 12.9 128 91 114 europe (d) 19.2 18.6 18.3 7.7 7.2 7.3 1,530 1,387 1,317 middle east &amp; africa 4.3 4.3 3.9 4.5 % 4.6 % 5.0 % 187 192 199 china (e) 25.1 24.0 22.2 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.1 % 1,160 1,116 936 australia 1.2 1.1 1.1 6.1 7.2 7.7 71 80 85 india 3.4 3.2 3.3 2.1 2.4 2.5 78 77 80 asean (f) 3.0 3.2 3.5 3.3 3.1 2.7 94 94 99 asia pacific (g) 40.5 39.7 37.8 3.5 3.5 3.3 1,464 1,439 1,270 global 89.5 88.1 85.0 7.3 % 7.1 % 7.3 % n/a n/a n/a total company n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 6,635 6,323 6,330 ______________ (a) industry volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations. (b) market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry volume in the relevant market or region. market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (c) wholesale unit volume includes sales of medium and heavy trucks. wholesale unit volume includes all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volume. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volume (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. (d) amounts shown are based on total europe. we previously reported these amounts on a europe 20 basis, which consisted of austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, romania, spain, sweden, switzerland, and the united kingdom. europe 20 industry volume was 16.0 million, 14.6 million, and 13.8 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. europe 20 market share was 8.0%, 7.9%, and 7.8% in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. (e) china industry volume and market share for years shown above are based on estimated wholesales. in 2016, we will begin using estimated vehicle registrations as a basis for calculating industry volume and market share. china industry volume, based on estimated vehicle registrations, was 23.5 million units in 2015. (f) asean includes indonesia, philippines, thailand, vietnam, and malaysia. (g) asia pacific market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. 5 item 1. business (continued) financial services sector ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford credit offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases for new vehicles to retail and commercial customers including leasing companies, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. ford credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., floorplan financing), as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers, receivables from ford-related loans, and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operations are managed through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany, representing 67% of fce's finance receivables and operating leases. the following table shows ford credit's financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles sold in the united states and new ford vehicles sold in europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe: years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 united states - financing share retail installment and lease 47 % 45 % 40 % wholesale 76 77 77 europe - financing share retail installment and lease 37 % 36 % 34 % wholesale 98 98 98 see item 7 and notes 5, 6, and 7 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. on april 30, 2015, we entered into an amended and restated relationship agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5:1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5:1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. the agreement also limits to $3 billion the amount ford credit may borrow under our third amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2015. in a separate agreement with fce, ford credit also has agreed to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 6 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements federal emission standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. in 2014, the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) finalized new tier 3 regulations that phase in increasingly stringent motor vehicle emission standards beginning with the 2017 model year; compliance with these standards could be challenging. compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. fuel variables that can affect vehicle emissions include ethanol content, octane ratings, and the use of metallic-based fuel additives, among other things. there are various ongoing regulatory and judicial proceedings related to fuel quality at the national and state level, and the outcome of these proceedings could affect vehicle manufacturers' warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards. u.s. requirements california and other state emission standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california may establish its own unique vehicle emission standards; the california standards can also be adopted by other states. the california air resources board ( carb ) has adopted lev iii standards, which took effect with the 2015 model year and impose increasingly stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions requirements for light and medium duty vehicles. thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the lev iii standards. the california vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ). the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles, particularly for the 2018 2025 model years. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with zev rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volume of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, especially if gasoline prices remain relatively low . we also are concerned about enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. carb conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming zev requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance. ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that zev requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome. european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new stage 6 emission standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in september 2014, with a second phase beginning in september 2017. these standards will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. the european commission has also proposed new real driving emission (rde) rules, which will require manufacturers to conduct on-road emission tests using portable emission analyzers. these on-road emission tests will complement the laboratory-based tests. during the initial phase, which started in january 2016, the rde tests are used for monitoring purposes. beginning in september 2017, manufacturers will have to reduce the divergence between the regulatory limit that is tested in laboratory conditions and the values of rde tests ( conformity factors ). the additional costs associated with conducting the rde tests and complying with the conformity factors are expected to be significant. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emission regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china adopted emission regulations for large cities based on european stage v emission standards. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. although these countries have adopted regulations based on un-ece or u.s. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for 7 item 1. business (continued) these markets. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. tier 2 requirements. in july 2015, the canadian federal government amended the on-road vehicle and engine emission regulations and the sulphur in gasoline regulations to align canadian emission standards with the u.s. tier 3 regulations discussed above. not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emission standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. brazil and chile have introduced stringent emission and on-board diagnostic standards based on the european stage 5 standards for light duty vehicles and stage v standards for heavy duty vehicles. in brazil, more stringent on-board diagnostic standards for diesel light duty vehicles will be introduced in 2017. argentina is phasing in european stage 5 standards for all new light duty vehicle registrations by 2017 and european stage v standards for heavy duty vehicles by 2018. global developments. in september 2015, the epa and carb announced that they were investigating a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light-duty diesel vehicles. the announcement triggered similar investigations of the competitor by regulators in other countries. defeat devices are elements of design (typically embedded in software) that improperly cause the emission control system to function less effectively during normal on-road driving than during an official laboratory emissions test, without justification. they are prohibited by law in many jurisdictions, including the united states and europe. we do not use defeat devices in our vehicles. the investigations by the epa and carb of our competitor have led to increased scrutiny of automakers' emission testing by regulators around the world. the epa began carrying out additional non-standard tests as part of its vehicle certification program, following an announcement in september 2015. the eu accelerated efforts to finalize its rde testing program as described above. several european countries, including france and germany, are conducting non-standard emission tests and meeting with manufacturers to discuss the results. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards u.s. requirements light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light duty trucks. the epa also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions under the clean air act. because the vast majority of ghgs emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, ghg emission standards effectively are fuel economy standards. thus, it is necessary for nhtsa and epa to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and ghg standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies. in 2010, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations establishing the one national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. these rules require manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year. each manufacturer's specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the one national program standards become increasingly stringent over time, and they will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the rules provide for a midterm evaluation process under which, by 2018, epa and nhtsa will re-evaluate their standards for model years 2022 2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. we are particularly concerned about the commercial feasibility of meeting the 2022 2025 model year ghg and cafe standards, and therefore the midterm evaluation process is very important to ford and the auto industry. ford's ability to comply with the 2022 2025 model year standards remains unclear because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far 8 item 1. business (continued) into the future. we intend to be an active participant in the midterm evaluation process for these standards. our concern about the feasibility of the fuel economy and ghg standards also extends to some of the pre-2022 model year standards, which are not covered by the midterm evaluation. if the agencies seek to impose and enforce fuel economy and ghg standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. california has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. with the adoption of the federal one national program standards discussed above, california and the other states have agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with any purported state ghg requirements for the 2012 2025 model years. this avoids a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. should california and other states ever renew their efforts to enforce state-specific motor vehicle ghg rules, this would impose significant costs on automotive manufacturers. u.s. requirements heavy duty vehicles. epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated ghg and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating). in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. epa and nhtsa are expected to finalize new rules in 2016 setting ghg and fuel economy standards for these vehicles, covering model years 2019 2027. as the heavy-duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions beginning in 2012 that limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ( g/km ), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ( eco-innovations ), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. a penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets, with fees ranging from 5 to 95 per vehicle per g/km shortfall in the years 2012 2018, and 95 per g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. pooling agreements between different manufacturers are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. starting in 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. other non-eu european countries are likely to follow with similar regulations. for example, switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in july 2012 with the same targets (which likely also will include a 2020 target of 95 g/km), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance. in separate legislation, complementary measures have been mandated, including requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission, council and parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020; it is likely that other european countries, like switzerland, will implement similar rules but under even more difficult conditions. this regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for multi-stage vehicles (e.g., our transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, super-credits for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. the united nations has a project underway to develop a new technical regulation for passenger car emissions and co 2. this new world light duty test procedure ( wltp ) is focused primarily on better aligning laboratory co 2 and fuel consumption figures with customer-reported figures. the introduction of wltp in europe is likely to require updates to co 2 labeling as early as 2018 and could increase certain consumer label values. costs associated with new or incremental testing for wltp could be significant. the european commission continues to apply political pressure for mandatory wltp testing for regulated emissions and co 2 starting in september 2017. the european commission has assured equivalent stringency to the existing fleet average rules for each automobile manufacturer if the 2020 fleet average targets are required to be measured on wltp instead of under the current european new european driving cycle ( nedc ) requirements. 9 item 1. business (continued) some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. to limit ghg emissions, the eu directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower global warming potential refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in january 2017. a refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole manufacturing chain. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. the standards track the u.s. epa ghg regulations for the 2012 2016 model years. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014 2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in february 2013. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the notice of intent to regulate heavy duty vehicles and engines for model year 2019 and beyond, which tracks u.s. epa standards. mexico adopted fuel economy/co 2 standards, based on the u.s. one national program framework, that took effect in 2014. many asia pacific countries (such as australia, china, india, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam) are developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, south korea has set fuel efficiency targets for 2020, with incentives for early adoption. china published standards for stage iv fuel efficiency targets for 2016 2020. the fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for all light-duty vehicles. brazil has required inclusion of emission classification on fuel economy labels since january 2016. brazil also published a new automotive regime establishing a minimum absolute cafe value as a function of fleet corporate average mass for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved. a severe penalty system will apply to qualified manufacturers failing to meet fuel efficiency requirements for the 2013 2017 sales period. brazil reduced import tax on electric and hybrid cars. the tax rate, which was 35%, will vary from zero to 7%, depending on a vehicle's energy efficiency. chile introduced a tax based on urban fuel consumption and nox emission for light and medium vehicles beginning in late 2014. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. in the middle east, the kingdom of saudi arabia introduced new light duty vehicle fuel economy standards, which are patterned after the u.s. cafe standard structure, with fuel economy targets following the design of the u.s. 2012 2016 fuel economy standards. the standards became effective on january 1, 2016 and will be fully phased in by the end of 2017. vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emission and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance issue exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new safety and recall requirements in china, india, and gulf cooperation council countries also 10 item 1. business (continued) may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. in south america, additional safety requirements are being introduced or proposed in argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and uruguay, influenced by the new car assessment programme for latin america and the caribbean ( latin ncap ), which may be a driver for similar actions in other countries. in canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with u.s. regulations. however, recent amendments to the canadian motor vehicle safety act have introduced broad powers to the minister of transport to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the minister considers it would be in the interest of safety. employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 was as follows (in thousands): 2015 2014 automotive north america 96 90 south america 15 16 europe (a) 53 47 middle east &amp; africa 3 3 asia pacific 25 25 financial services ford credit 7 6 total 199 187 __________________________ (a) 2015 includes employees of ford sollers, our joint-venture in russia that was consolidated effective march 31, 2015. the year-over-year increase in employment primarily reflects hiring in north america to support product-led growth initiatives and increased vehicle production. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). approximately 1.5% of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2015, we entered into a four-year collective bargaining agreement with the uaw covering approximately 53,000 employees in the united states. the terms of the agreement provide us with opportunities to improve our productivity and put us on common footing with our domestic competitors regarding labor cost structure. overall, including the ratification and lump sum bonuses, our u.s. labor costs are expected to increase by less than 1.5% a year during the term of the agreement. in 2015, we also entered into collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, brazil, france, germany, india, mexico, new zealand, romania, taiwan, thailand and the united kingdom. in 2016, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, brazil, canada, france, germany, italy, mexico, romania, russia, south africa, taiwan and thailand. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. engineering, research, and development expenses for 2015, 2014, and 2013 were $6.7 billion, $6.7 billion, and $6.2 billion, respectively. 11 item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, such as occurred during 2008 and 2009, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, we must grow our market share in fast-growing newly developed and emerging markets, particularly in our asia pacific region and our middle east &amp; africa region, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is lower than it is in our mature markets. a significant decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in newly developing or emerging markets, whether due to capacity constraints, competitive pressures, protectionist trade policies, or other factors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. the success of ford smart mobility, our plan for connectivity, mobility, autonomous vehicles, the customer experience, and data and analytics, likewise depends on many factors, including the amount of capital we invest, advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict that may significantly affect the future of mobility. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption could result in an immediate and substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. although we have a balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large cars, utilities, and trucks with competitive fuel efficiency, a shift in consumer preferences away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles at levels greater than our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons still could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, continued price volatility, or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand across segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2015 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 31 million units in 2015. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and devastating impact on markets around the world. for example, the financial crisis that began in the united states in 2008 quickly spread to other markets; natural disasters in japan and thailand during 2011 caused production interruptions and delays not just in asia pacific but other regions around the world; and episodes of increased geopolitical tensions or acts of terrorism have at times caused adverse reactions that may spread to economies around the globe. concerns persist regarding the sustainability of the european currency area ( euro area ) and of the larger european union, which includes the united kingdom. the pending decision by the u.k. electorate on whether to remain in the european union has exacerbated concerns regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual euro area countries. if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. the exit of the united kingdom from the european union would have less extreme but still significant implications. such scenarios or the perception that such developments are imminent could adversely affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such developments could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact sales of vehicles. any one of these impacts could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. the automotive industry supply base experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes beginning in 2008. dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage, increasing pressure on the supply base. as a result, suppliers not only were less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases as well as new and shorter payment terms. at times, we have had to provide financial assistance to key suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. in addition, suppliers may continue to exit certain lines of business or close facilities due to economic concerns, management turnover, or other reasons. in such cases, we generally experience additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. each of these factors could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. recent examples of situations that have affected industry production to varying degrees include: supplier financial distress due to reduced production volumes during the economic downturn in 2008 2009; capacity constraints as suppliers that restructured or downsized during the downturn work to satisfy growing industry volumes; short-term constraints on production as consumer preferences shift more fluidly across vehicle segments and features; and the impact on certain suppliers of natural disasters during 2011. as indicated, a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a four-year agreement with the uaw in 2015 and will negotiate a new agreement with unifor (formerly the canadian auto workers union) in 2016. although we have negotiated transformational agreements in recent years, these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) our qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate a qualified underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe it is unlikely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our qualified u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). at december 31, 2015, we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. in 2015, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. the renewal is subject to shareholder approval at our annual meeting in may 2016. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may be in tension with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. in addition, the introduction of new and innovative features and technology to our vehicles could increase the risk of defects or customer dissatisfaction. in 2014 and 2015, there was an unprecedented increase in the number of vehicles involved in safety recalls by manufacturers in the united states. the increase reflects nhtsa's continued expansion of its definition of safety defects under the safety act. in addition, nhtsa's enforcement strategy shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. these recall and warranty costs could be exacerbated to the extent they relate to global platforms. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions also could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services . 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles are 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 54.5 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles beginning in the 2018 model year. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the u.s. government has initiated an enforcement action against a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light duty diesel vehicles. the emergence of this issue has led to increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world. this may lead to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. the techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. a significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our third amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2015 and as further amended (the revolving credit facility ), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $13.4 billion. certain of our subsidiaries have standby or revolving credit facilities on which they depend for liquidity. if the financial institutions that provide commitments under the revolving credit facility, our subsidiaries' standby or revolving credit facilities, or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) congress also passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) in 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and, among other things, gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. for example, in march 2013, the cfpb issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes ford credit, take steps to monitor and/or impose controls over dealer discretionary pricing. effective august 31, 2015, the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. in addition, the dodd-frank act provides that a nonbank financial company could be designated a systemically important financial institution by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a nonbank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) insured deposits. the dodd-frank act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the fdic may be appointed as receiver of a nonbank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that the company is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the dodd-frank act's alternative liquidation framework. in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital and liquidity. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 19 item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 50% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 98% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. we and the entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2015 use eight regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 67 manufacturing plants as shown in the table below: segment plants north america 29 south america 8 europe 16 middle east &amp; africa 2 asia pacific 12 total 67 included in the number of plants shown above are plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive sector. the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns are as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh imports ford brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific region, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( ford sollers ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc ( sollers ), in which ford has control. the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia, and has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture has been approved to participate in russia's industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia. in addition to its three existing manufacturing facilities in russia, ford sollers launched an engine plant in russia in 2015. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is owned by the state of vietnam represented by the ministry of industry and trade) (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. 20 item 2. properties (continued) in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of the automotive unconsolidated joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf currently operates five assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant in china where it produces and distributes an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces engines for ford and mazda vehicles manufactured in china. ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also makes the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license from us. the joint venture owns two plants, a parts distribution depot, a product development center, and a new research and development center in turkey. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with getrag international gmbh, a german company. gft operates plants in halewood, england; cologne, germany; bordeaux, france; and kechnex, slovakia to produce, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles ford transit, ford everest, ford engines, and non-ford vehicles and engines for distribution in china and in other export markets. jmc operates two assembly plants and one engine plant in nanchang. in 2015, jmc opened a new plant in taiyuan to assemble heavy duty trucks and engines. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment, and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to the operations' total assets. 21 item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicles. in many, no monetary amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy, or emerged from bankruptcy relieved of liability for such claims. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, sometimes more than one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. we have two environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: notices of violation to ford chicago assembly plant and dearborn truck plant . on august 17, 2015, the u.s. environmental protection agency (the epa ) issued a notice of violation to our chicago assembly plant and on december 26, 2015 the epa issued a notice of violation to our dearborn truck plant. the epa alleges that the plants violated several requirements related to their air permits. monetary sanctions, if any, have not yet been determined. 22 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. at this time, we have no such purported class actions filed against us. other matters brazilian tax matters. two brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority currently have outstanding substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. for each assessment, if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state or federal judicial court, which would likely require us to post significant collateral in order to proceed. our appeals with one state and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level. in the other state, where two cases are pending, we have appealed to the judicial court and to date we have not been required to post collateral. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). a decision by cit may be appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit. if we prevail, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. if we do not prevail, cbp would recover the increased duties for prior imports, plus interest, and might assert a claim for penalties. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 23 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2016: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board sept. 2006 58 mark fields (b) president and chief executive officer jul. 2014 55 james d. farley, jr. executive vice president president, europe, middle east &amp; africa jan. 2015 53 joseph r. hinrichs executive vice president president, the americas dec. 2012 49 stephen t. odell executive vice president global marketing, sales and service jan. 2015 60 raj nair executive vice president product development and chief technical officer dec. 2015 51 bob shanks executive vice president and chief financial officer apr. 2012 63 john casesa group vice president global strategy mar. 2015 53 ray day group vice president communications mar. 2013 49 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services apr. 2008 50 bennie fowler group vice president quality and new model launch apr. 2008 59 bruce hettle group vice president manufacturing and labor affairs jan. 2016 54 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations jan. 2004 48 dave schoch group vice president president, asia pacific dec. 2012 64 bernard silverstone group vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. jan. 2013 60 hau thai-tang group vice president global purchasing aug. 2013 49 bradley m. gayton vice president and general counsel jan. 2016 52 stuart rowley vice president and controller apr. 2012 48 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. each of the officers listed above, except for john casesa, has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. prior to joining ford in march 2015, john casesa was senior managing director of guggenheim partners, where he led the firm's automotive investment banking activities since 2010. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose or by a resolution to fill a vacancy. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 24 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states, and on certain stock exchanges in belgium and france. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock, and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2015 and 2014: 2015 2014 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 16.74 $ 16.16 $ 15.30 $ 15.84 $ 16.78 $ 17.35 $ 18.12 $ 16.13 low 14.30 14.78 10.44 13.40 14.40 15.43 14.49 13.26 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.125 0.125 0.125 0.125 __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. as of february 4, 2016, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 137,858 holders of common stock and 34 holders of class b stock. in march 2015, we announced a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation granted in 2015. the plan authorized repurchases of up to 8.5 million shares of our common stock. we completed the program in july 2015. 25 item 6. selected financial data. on december 31, 2015, we adopted a change in accounting method for certain components of expense related to our defined benefit pension and opeb plans (see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements). we have applied the change in accounting method retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and the amounts below reflect this change. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 total company revenues $ 149,558 $ 144,077 $ 146,917 $ 133,559 $ 135,605 income before income taxes $ 10,252 $ 1,234 $ 14,371 $ 2,005 $ 3,687 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 2,881 4 2,425 89 (13,207 ) net income 7,371 1,230 11,946 1,916 16,894 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (2 ) (1 ) (7 ) (1 ) 9 net income attributable to ford motor company $ 7,373 $ 1,231 $ 11,953 $ 1,917 $ 16,885 automotive sector revenues $ 140,566 $ 135,782 $ 139,369 $ 126,567 $ 128,168 income/(loss) before income taxes 8,224 (560 ) 12,699 295 1,256 financial services sector revenues $ 8,992 $ 8,295 $ 7,548 $ 6,992 $ 7,437 income before income taxes 2,028 1,794 1,672 1,710 2,431 earnings per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,969 3,912 3,935 3,815 3,793 basic income $ 1.86 $ 0.31 $ 3.04 $ 0.50 $ 4.45 diluted income 1.84 0.31 2.94 0.49 4.13 cash dividends declared 0.60 0.50 0.40 0.15 0.05 common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high 16.74 18.12 18.02 13.08 18.97 low 10.44 13.26 12.10 8.82 9.05 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 91,959 $ 90,167 $ 90,504 $ 86,852 $ 79,014 financial services sector 137,026 121,388 115,057 105,012 100,612 intersector elimination (1,083 ) (1,024 ) (1,631 ) (252 ) (1,112 ) total assets $ 227,902 $ 210,531 $ 203,930 $ 191,612 $ 178,514 debt automotive sector $ 12,839 $ 13,824 $ 15,683 $ 14,256 $ 13,094 financial services sector 120,015 105,347 99,005 90,802 86,595 intersector elimination (a) (201 ) total debt $ 132,854 $ 119,171 $ 114,688 $ 105,058 $ 99,488 total equity $ 28,657 $ 24,465 $ 26,173 $ 15,924 $ 14,917 __________ (a) debt related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities. 26 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview revenue our automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories; we generally treat sales and marketing incentives as a reduction to revenue. revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue at the time of sale. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 27 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: contribution costs these costs typically vary with production volume. these costs include material, commodity, warranty, and freight and duty costs. structural costs these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and opeb costs. while contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2015 was $134.5 billion. material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of our automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2015 about two-thirds of the total amount. of the remaining balance of our automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve raised its policy interest rate in december 2015, for the first time since 2006, and the resulting shifts in capital flows have contributed to downward pressure on several emerging market currencies. in some cases that pressure is aggravated by low commodity prices, high inflation, or unstable policy environments. additionally, the yen and euro have depreciated as a result of monetary policy easing by the bank of japan and european central bank. the weak yen, in particular, adds significant potential downward pressure on vehicle pricing across many markets globally. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. however, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 119 million units exceeded global production by about 31 million units in 2015. in north america and europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 7% and 22%, respectively, in 2015. in china, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 54% of production in 2015, as manufacturers competed to capitalize on china's future market potential. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 33 million units per year during the period from 2016 to 2020. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) commodity and energy price changes. the price of oil has continued to decline in early 2016, after averaging under $50 per barrel in 2015, as global supply remains strong despite the ongoing price pressures. other commodity prices also have declined recently, but over the longer term prices are likely to trend higher given expectations for global demand growth. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 135% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. as we execute our one ford plan, we are working to create best-in-class vehicles on global platforms that contribute higher margins, and offering a more balanced portfolio of vehicles with which we aim to be among the leaders in fuel efficiency in every segment in which we compete. increasing sales of smaller vehicles . like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india, and china, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets. the largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., sub-b, b, and c segments). to increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are significantly increasing our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures. although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles. trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade. while we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. in asia pacific, for example, the recent dramatic depreciation of the yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers. over a period of time, the emerging weakness of the yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. as another example, government actions in south america to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. during 2015, mature market government bond yields and inflation were lower than expected, and there is a rising risk of persistent disinflation and, in some markets, even outright deflation. the lower levels of inflation and interest rates were unexpected partially because they have occurred against a backdrop of loose monetary policy and high levels of mature market deficits and debt. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may still drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. for additional information on our assessment of the business environment, refer to the outlook section below. 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies the traditional global automotive industry achieves around $2.3 trillion in revenue per year. today, our share of this is about 6%. at the same time, transportation services , which includes services such as mass transit, taxis, and ride sharing, totals about $5.4 trillion in revenue annually, and is expected to grow in the next 15 years. yet, we and our auto industry competitors receive virtually none of the revenue from those transportation services. that is about to change. we see being an auto company and a mobility company as a significant opportunity, and we are very serious about investing in, innovating in, and leading in both. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) strengthening today's business. we are strengthening and investing in our core business of designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing, financing, and servicing cars, trucks, suvs, and electrified vehicles. having completed the launch of 16 new vehicles globally in 2015, we are planning another active product year in 2016 with 12 global product launches, including the new f-series super duty, ford gt, and lincoln continental. we will add more electrified products for ford and lincoln, including the new focus electric, which features all-new dc fast-charge capability delivering an 80% charge in an estimated 30 minutes and a projected 100-mile range. through 2020, we plan to invest $4.5 billion in electrified vehicle solutions. strengthening our business includes restructuring the parts that have no reasonable prospect for profitability or are no longer relevant for the future we see for ourselves. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) pursuing emerging opportunities. at the same time that we are strengthening our core business, we are pursuing emerging opportunities through ford smart mobility, our plan to be a leader in connectivity, mobility, autonomous vehicles, the customer experience, and data and analytics. we will have more to say concerning ford smart mobility throughout the year, but a few of the highlights so far include: sync connect - by 2020, more than 10 million vehicles in north america will be equipped with sync connect built-in modems. sync connect will enhance our connected car capabilities by enabling our customers to lock, unlock, start, and locate vehicles using their smart phones. autonomous vehicles - we are tripling our fleet of fusion hybrid autonomous research vehicles this year, making our fully-autonomous vehicle fleet the largest of all automakers. we are increasing autonomous testing at m-city and in california, and we are the first automaker to have tested autonomous vehicles in the snow. fordpass - we are working to transform the automotive customer experience to be more enjoyable, starting with the introduction of fordpass. through fordpass, customers will be able to connect with marketplace services (including parking solutions, ride sharing, car sharing, and multimodal transportation), solve mobility challenges with live guides who will help with their mobility challenges (all at the touch of a button), and access merchandise and unique experiences in collaboration with affinity partners (including mcdonald's, 7-eleven, and others). 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our three priorities. as we strengthen our core business and prepare for emerging opportunities, we are staying focused on three priorities: accelerating the pace of progress on our one ford plan, delivering product excellence with passion, and driving innovation in every part of our business. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations on december 31, 2015, we adopted a change in accounting method for certain components of expense related to our defined benefit pension and opeb plans (see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements). we have applied the change in accounting method retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and the amounts below reflect this change. total company our net income attributable to ford motor company was $7.4 billion or $1.84 per share of common and class b stock in 2015, an increase of $6.1 billion or $1.53 per share from 2014. our pre-tax results and net income were as follows: 2015 2014 2013 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) pre-tax results automotive sector pre-tax results (excl. special items) $ 8,772 $ 5,499 $ 8,423 financial services sector pre-tax results 2,028 1,794 1,672 total company pre-tax results (excl. special items) 10,800 7,293 10,095 special items - automotive sector (548 ) (6,059 ) 4,276 total company pre-tax results (incl. special items) 10,252 1,234 14,371 (provision for)/benefit from income taxes (2,881 ) (4 ) (2,425 ) net income 7,371 1,230 11,946 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (2 ) (1 ) (7 ) net income attributable to ford $ 7,373 $ 1,231 $ 11,953 net income includes certain items ( special items ) that we have grouped into pension and opeb remeasurements, personnel and dealer-related items, and other items to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items. the first category includes pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. these gains and losses, generally recognized in the fourth quarter, are not reflective of our underlying automotive business results. the second category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities. the third category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. as detailed in note 24 of the notes to the financial statements, we allocate special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and other automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table details automotive sector special items in each category: 2015 2014 2013 (mils.) (mils.) (mils.) pension and opeb remeasurements $ (698 ) $ (4,123 ) $ 5,246 personnel and dealer-related items separation-related actions (a) (681 ) (852 ) other items nemak ipo 150 venezuela accounting change (800 ) ford sollers equity impairment (329 ) 2016 convertible notes settlement (126 ) fcta -- subsidiary liquidation (103 ) ford romania consolidation loss (15 ) total other items 150 (1,255 ) (118 ) total special items $ (548 ) $ (6,059 ) $ 4,276 tax special items $ 205 $ 1,905 $ 116 __________ (a) for 2014 and 2013, primarily related to separation costs for personnel at the genk and u.k. facilities. our tax special items of $205 million and $1.9 billion in 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily reflect the tax associated with our pre-tax special items. our tax special item of $116 million in 2013 reflects the tax associated with our pre-tax special items, offset by a favorable increase in deferred tax assets related to investments in our european operations and the release of valuation allowances held against u.s. state and local deferred tax assets. the following table shows our earnings per share on a diluted basis for full year 2015: net income attributable to ford operating results excluding special items after-tax results (mils.) diluted after-tax results $ 7,373 $ 7,716 basic and diluted shares (mils.) basic shares (average shares outstanding) 3,969 3,969 net dilutive options 33 33 diluted shares $ 4,002 $ 4,002 diluted earnings per share $ 1.84 $ 1.93 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) discussion of automotive sector, financial services sector, and total company results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis and excludes special items unless otherwise specifically noted. references to records by automotive segments north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific are since at least 2000 when we began reporting specific business unit results. results by segment. the chart below shows our 2015 company pre-tax results by automotive business unit, along with other automotive which is mainly net interest expense, and our financial services sector. we achieved a record company full-year pre-tax profit of $10.8 billion in 2015. collectively, our operations outside of north america were profitable and every business unit, with the exception of south america, was profitable in 2015. in europe, we earned $259 million, reflecting the progress of our transformation plan announced in 2012. asia pacific had its best-ever annual profit. north america and ford credit continued to deliver benchmark profitability. and as shown below the chart, all business units improved compared to 2014. 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive sector definitions and calculations used in this report include: wholesales and revenue wholesale unit volumes include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our china joint venture, jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ), that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue automotive operating margin defined as automotive pre-tax results, excluding special items and other automotive, divided by automotive revenue industry volume and market share based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy duty trucks. for periods prior to 2016, china industry volume and market share are based on estimated wholesales. saar seasonally adjusted annual rate a utomotive cash includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities net of securities-in-transit. in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive pre-tax operating profit for our total automotive sector and reportable segments using the causal factors listed below, with net pricing and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, and special lease offers contribution costs primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs structural costs primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing, including volume related consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), and new product launch expense. these costs could be affected by volume for operating pattern actions such as overtime, line-speed, and shift schedules engineering consists primarily of costs for engineering personnel, prototype materials, testing, and outside engineering services spending-related consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) net interest and other net interest primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in our automotive sector's centrally-managed net interest, which consists of interest expense, interest income, fair market value adjustments on our cash equivalents and marketable securities portfolio (excluding strategic equity investments held in marketable securities), and other adjustments other items not included in the causal factors defined above 2015 compared with 2014 the charts on the following pages detail 2015 key metrics and the change in 2015 pre-tax results compared with 2014 by causal factor for our automotive sector and its segments. shown above are the key market factors and financial metrics for our automotive business for full year 2015. our automotive operating margin of 6.8 percent was the highest since at least the 1990s. each of the key metrics improved compared to 2014: wholesale volume was up 5%, automotive revenue was up 4%, or 9% at constant exchange, automotive operating margin was up 2.2 points or nearly 50%, and record full year automotive pre-tax profit, at $8.8 billion, was up 60%. global industry volume, estimated at 89.5 million units, was up 1.4 million units from a year ago. our global market share, at 7.3%, was up two-tenths of a percentage point with gains in south america and europe. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as shown above, our full year automotive pre-tax profit improved by $3.3 billion. the improvement was driven by $7.4 billion of favorable market factors, reflecting the success of our new product launches, our asia pacific growth strategy, as well as industry growth in north america and europe. cost increases were mainly product-related costs and manufacturing and engineering expense that supported our growth in 2015, and will support further growth in 2016 and beyond. total costs and expenses. for 2015 and 2014, total costs and expenses, including special items, for our automotive sector were $134.5 billion and $136.8 billion, respectively, a difference of $2.3 billion. the detail for the change is shown below (in billions): 2015 lower/(higher) 2014 volume and mix, exchange, and other $ 1.4 contribution costs material excluding commodities (3.7 ) commodities 0.9 warranty, freight, and other 1.4 structural costs (1.8 ) special items 4.1 total $ 2.3 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america had an outstanding year, with each of north america's key metrics improving compared with a year ago. we delivered substantial top-line growth, operating margin at 10.2%, and full year pre-tax profit of $9.3 billion up 26%. the north america industry volume improved compared with a year ago; the u.s. industry volume totaled 17.8 million units, up 1 million units. u.s. market share was flat compared to last year. in addition, although not shown above, u.s. retail share increased one-tenth of a percentage point to 13.0% driven by strong demand for our newest products, including f-150 and mustang. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) favorable volume and mix and higher net pricing drove north america's pre-tax profit higher than a year ago. higher costs, including a one-time ratification bonus in other related to the uaw agreement in the fourth quarter, and unfavorable exchange were partial offsets. with the 16 global product launches last year, we expect about 45% of our wholesales in 2016 to be from products that we launched since january 2015. we achieved our highest annual sales in the united states since 2005. ford remained the best-selling vehicle brand in the united states and ford f-series was the best-selling vehicle in the united states for the 34th straight year. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) wholesale volume, revenue, and operating margin were each lower than a year ago, reflecting the continued deterioration of the business environment in south america. despite the tough conditions, south america's pre-tax loss for the full year was reduced by $332 million, or 29%, compared to last year. the south america industry volume, at 4.2 million units, was down 1.1 million units. most of this was in brazil. ford's market share in south america, at 9.6%, was up seven-tenths of a percentage point reflecting our strong performance in brazil with the all-new ka. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the full year pre-tax loss in south america was less severe than a year ago, reflecting higher net pricing and market share, partially offset by lower industry. our team in the region continues to work on all areas of the business to counter the effects of the difficult business environment and position ourselves to be able to recover quickly once conditions begin to improve. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) with the exception of revenue, which was impacted adversely by the strong u.s. dollar, all metrics for the full year were better than a year ago. the europe industry volume was 600,000 units higher compared to a year ago, more than explained by the improvement in the europe 20 markets. our total europe market share in the region was up five-tenths of a percentage point to 7.7%, reflecting the strength of ecosport and mondeo and geographic mix. in 2015, ford became europe's best-selling commercial vehicle brand, reflecting the strength of our renewed transit line-up and ranger as well as our dedicated dealer network support. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in europe, our full year pre-tax profit was $259 million, up over $850 million compared to a year ago. the improvement in europe reflects favorable market factors and improved costs flowing through to the bottom line, partially offset by unfavorable exchange and the consolidation of ford sollers, our joint venture in russia. returning to profitability in 2015 reflected the progress of our transformation plan announced in 2012. 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our pre-tax results and operating margin improved from a year ago, reflecting higher net pricing offset by lower volume. wholesale volume and revenue declined compared to a year ago. the industry volume for the region was flat and our market share declined one-tenth of a percentage point due to industry growth in markets in which we do not participate. market share was higher compared to 2014 in the major markets in which we do participate. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in asia pacific, we had our best year yet as we continue to execute our growth strategy. asia pacific achieved record volume, revenue, operating margin, and pre-tax profit in 2015, mainly reflecting the strength of our new products, including the all-new three-row edge, figo, everest, lincoln mkx, taurus, and new ranger. our china joint ventures contributed $1.5 billion to pre-tax profit in 2015, reflecting our equity share of the unconsolidated joint ventures' after-tax earnings; this was $234 million higher than last year. the industry volume for the region was 40.5 million units, up 800,000 units from a year ago, more than explained by an increase in the china industry volume. for the full year, both our asia pacific regional market share of 3.5% and our china market share of 4.5% were the same as a year ago. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific delivered an outstanding year with a record pre-tax profit of $765 million, up 29% from a year ago. favorable volume was driven by strong industry in china, where we were able to leverage the government incentive program with our strong line-up of vehicles with 1.6l or smaller engines. higher mix reflected the strength of our new products, highlighted by the performance of the locally produced all-new three-row edge. higher structural cost was a partial offset to the improvement, as we continue to invest for further growth in the region. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 compared with 2013 the charts on the following pages detail 2014 key metrics and the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor for our automotive sector and its operating segments north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific. as shown above, full-year wholesale volume was about equal to 2013. automotive sector revenue was lower than in 2013 by 3%, more than explained by lower volume from consolidated operations and unfavorable exchange. operating margin, at 4.6%, and pre-tax profit, at $5.5 billion, were also lower. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) lower pre-tax profit was driven by the americas; all other business units improved. higher costs, including warranty, unfavorable exchange, and lower volume, including product launch effects and supplier parts shortages, more than explain the decline. higher net pricing was a partial offset. total costs and expenses. for 2014 and 2013, total costs and expenses, including special items, for our automotive sector were $136.9 billion and $127.9 billion, respectively, a difference of $9 billion. the detail for the change is shown below (in billions): 2014 lower/(higher) 2013 volume and mix, exchange, and other $ 2.9 contribution costs material/freight 0.8 warranty (1.3 ) other costs structural costs (2.1 ) other (0.1 ) special items (9.2 ) total $ (9.0 ) 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2014, automotive pre-tax profit was driven by profits in north america and record results in asia pacific. middle east &amp; africa was about breakeven, while europe and south america incurred large losses as expected. other automotive primarily reflects net interest expense. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as shown above, north america's full-year wholesale volume and revenue both declined 5% compared with 2013. operating margin was 9.0%, 2.4 percentage points lower than in 2013, while pre-tax profit was $7.4 billion, down $2.4 billion. for the full year, total u.s. market share was down 1 percentage point, primarily reflecting lower f-150 share as we prepared for the all-new vehicle by balancing share with transaction prices and stocks, as well as a planned reduction in daily rental sales. u.s. retail share of retail industry was down 0.6 percentage points . 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2014 compared with 2013 is more than explained by lower volume and higher costs, including warranty. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as shown above, full-year wholesale volume and revenue deteriorated compared with 2013 by 14% and 19%, respectively. operating margin was negative 13.2%, and the pre-tax loss was $1.2 billion, both deteriorated compared with 2013. the deterioration in all metrics was driven by unfavorable changes in the external factors mentioned above. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease in pre-tax profit for 2014 compared with 2013 is more than explained by unfavorable exchange, higher costs (primarily driven by higher inflation), and lower volume, offset partially by favorable net pricing. the higher net pricing reflects partial recovery of the adverse effects of high local inflation and weaker local currencies, along with pricing associated with our new products. the full year loss includes $426 million of adverse balance sheet exchange effects, related primarily to the devaluation of the venezuela bolivar in the first quarter. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe's full-year wholesale volume and revenue were up 5% and 8%, respectively, compared with 2013. operating margin was negative 2.0% and the pre-tax loss was $0.6 billion, both improved from 2013. europe 20 full-year market share, at 7.9%, was up 0.1 percentage points, more than explained by a 1.4 percentage point improvement in our commercial vehicle share, to 11.4%, reflecting the success of our full line of new transit vehicles and continued strong performance of the ranger compact pick-up. for the year, europe retail share of the retail passenger car industry for the five major markets was 8.2%, unchanged from 2013. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the improvement in pre-tax results is more than explained by higher volume and lower cost, offset partially by russia and other factors, including lower component pricing and parts and accessories profits. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) middle east &amp; africa's full-year wholesale volume and revenue were down 4% and 3%, respectively, compared with 2013. operating margin was negative 0.5% and the pre-tax loss was $20 million, both improved from 2013. the improvement in pre-tax results is more than explained by higher net pricing and favorable mix. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as shown above, all full year metrics improved from 2013 and all were records. wholesale volume improved 13% compared with 2013, while revenue, which excludes our china joint ventures, improved 5%. our wholesale volume in china, not shown, was up 19%. operating margin was 5.5%, up 2.3 percentage points, and pre-tax profit was $593 million, up $262 million. as shown in the memo, our china joint ventures contributed $1.3 billion to pre-tax profit in 2014, reflecting our equity share of earnings after tax. the balance of results for the region primarily reflect australia where we have been implementing our transformation plan; india where we have been investing for future growth, including the launch of two plants in 2014; and industry and economic factors in asean. our market share in the region was a record 3.5% for the full year, up by 0.2 percentage points compared with 2013. the improvement was driven by china, where our market share for the full year rose to a record 4.5%, up by 0.4 percentage points compared with 2013, reflecting continued strong sales across our vehicle line-up . 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the improvement in 2014 pre-tax results primarily reflects favorable market factors, offset partially by higher costs, including investments to support future growth, and unfavorable exchange. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector ford credit has two operations, north america and international. in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below: volume and mix: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average finance receivables and net investment in operating leases at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin) at prior period exchange rates. volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding for the purchase of retail installment sale and lease contracts and to provide wholesale financing. mix primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by period over period changes in the composition of ford credit's average managed receivables by product and by country or region. financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average receivables at prior period exchange rates. this calculation is performed at the product and country level and then aggregated. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average receivables for the same period. financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management. credit loss: credit loss is the change in the provision for credit losses at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses primarily into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses. net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information on the allowance for credit losses, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section below. lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation. residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold, and changes in the estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term. for additional information on accumulated supplemental depreciation, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section below. exchange: reflects changes in pre-tax results driven by the effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars. other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, and insurance expenses at prior period exchange rates. changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts. in general, other revenue changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates), and other miscellaneous items. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2015 compared with 2014 ford credit. the chart below details the key metrics for ford credit for full year 2015. ford credit had another outstanding year with pre-tax profit of $2.1 billion, up $232 million from 2014. ford credit continues to support our growth with contract volume up 8% in 2015 and year-end managed receivables of $127 billion, up $14 billion from 2014. managed receivables equal net finance receivables of $96.8 billion and $86.9 billion and net investment in operating leases of $25.1 billion and $21.5 billion reported on ford credit's balance sheet at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support of $4.5 billion and $3.9 billion, allowance for credit losses of $0.4 billion and $0.4 billion, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation) of $0.4 billion and $0.1 billion at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. ford credit's purchase policy remains consistent along with a relentless focus on originations, servicing, and collections. as a result, its portfolio performance continues to be robust with the loss-to-receivables ratio at the low end of ford credit's historical experience. ford credit is a strategic asset, supporting ford's sales around the world with a strong balance sheet and outstanding operating performance. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the chart below details the change in 2015 pre-tax results compared with 2014 by causal factor for ford credit. ford credit's 2015 pre-tax profit improved compared with 2014. the improvement is more than explained by favorable volume and mix, driven by growth in all products globally. higher credit losses and the adverse effect of the stronger u.s. dollar were partial offsets. the higher credit losses, primarily in north america, reflect reserve increases in 2015 compared with reserve releases in 2014. charge-offs were also higher. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2014 compared with 2013 ford credit. the chart below details the change in 2014 pre-tax results compared with 2013 by causal factor. the improvement of $98 million in pre-tax profit in 2014 compared with 2013 is more than explained by favorable volume and mix, driven by increases in consumer and non-consumer finance receivables globally, as well as an increase in operating leases in north america. partial offsets include lower financing margin, reflecting primarily lower portfolio pricing in north america and a one-time reserve in europe, and unfavorable lease residual performance in north america, resulting from lower relative auction values. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by generating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding. we target to have an average ongoing automotive cash balance of about $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to (i) future cash flow expectations such as for pension contributions, debt maturities, capital investments, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. in addition, we also target to maintain a revolving credit facility for our automotive business of about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. our revolving credit facility is discussed below. we assess the appropriate long-term target for total automotive liquidity, comprised of automotive cash and the revolving credit facility, to be about $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. our automotive cash and automotive liquidity targets could be reduced over time based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. for a discussion of risks to our liquidity, see item 1a. risk factors, as well as note 27 of the notes to the financial statements, regarding commitments and contingencies that could impact our liquidity. our key liquidity metrics are automotive cash, automotive liquidity, and operating-related cash flow (which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash). automotive cash is detailed below as of the dates shown (in billions): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 cash and cash equivalents $ 5.4 $ 4.6 $ 5.0 marketable securities 18.2 17.1 20.1 total cash and marketable securities 23.6 21.7 25.1 securities-in-transit (a) (0.3 ) automotive cash $ 23.6 $ 21.7 $ 24.8 __________ (a) the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and a payable or receivable was recorded on the balance sheet. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated a-1/p-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments ranges from about 90 days to up to about one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. of our total automotive cash at december 31, 2015, consolidated entities domiciled in the united states held 84%. automotive cash and liquidity as of the dates shown were as follows (in billions): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 automotive cash $ 23.6 $ 21.7 $ 24.8 available credit lines revolving credit facility, unutilized portion 10.3 10.1 10.7 local lines available to foreign affiliates, unutilized portion 0.6 0.6 0.7 automotive liquidity $ 34.5 $ 32.4 $ 36.2 in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive cash into operating-related and other items (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions, acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the financial services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other primarily financing-related). 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash. this differs from a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ) and differs from net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities , the most directly comparable gaap financial measure. changes in automotive cash are summarized below (in billions): 2015 2014 2013 automotive cash at end of period $ 23.6 $ 21.7 $ 24.8 automotive cash at beginning of period 21.7 24.8 24.3 change in automotive cash $ 1.9 $ (3.1 ) $ 0.5 automotive pre-tax profits (excluding special items) $ 8.8 $ 5.5 $ 8.4 capital spending (7.1 ) (7.4 ) (6.6 ) depreciation and tooling amortization 4.3 4.3 4.1 changes in working capital (a) 0.6 (0.4 ) (0.3 ) other/timing differences (b) 0.7 1.6 0.5 automotive operating-related cash flows 7.3 3.6 6.1 separation payments (0.6 ) (0.2 ) (0.3 ) net receipts from financial services sector (c) 0.2 0.6 0.4 other (d) (0.6 ) (0.8 ) 0.4 cash flow before other actions 6.3 3.2 6.6 changes in debt (0.8 ) (0.9 ) 0.7 funded pension contributions (1.1 ) (1.5 ) (5.0 ) dividends/other items (e) (2.5 ) (3.9 ) (1.8 ) change in cash $ 1.9 $ (3.1 ) $ 0.5 _________ (a) working capital is comprised of changes in receivables, inventory, and trade payables. (b) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, compensation, marketing, warranty, and timing differences between unconsolidated affiliate profits and dividends received. also includes other factors, such as the impact of tax payments and vehicle financing activities between automotive and financial services sectors. (c) primarily distributions from ford holdings (ford credit's parent) and tax payments received from ford credit. (d) 2014 includes one-time unfavorable cash effect associated with the accounting change for our operations in venezuela. (e) in 2014, we used $2 billion in cash to settle repurchases of approximately 116 million shares of ford common stock. with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive sector trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), as of the dates shown (in billions): 2015 2014 2013 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities $ 12.3 $ 8.8 $ 7.7 items included in operating-related cash flows capital spending (7.1 ) (7.4 ) (6.6 ) proceeds from the exercise of stock options 0.2 0.2 0.3 net cash flows from non-designated derivatives (0.1 ) 0.2 (0.3 ) items not included in operating-related cash flows separation payments 0.6 0.2 0.3 funded pension contributions 1.1 1.5 5.0 tax refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates (0.2 ) (0.3 ) other 0.3 0.3 operating-related cash flows $ 7.3 $ 3.6 $ 6.1 credit agreement . lenders under our third amended and restated credit agreement dated as of april 30, 2015 and as further amended (the revolving credit facility ) have commitments to us totaling $13.4 billion, with 75% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2020 and 25% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2018. we have allocated $3 billion of commitments to ford credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its growth and liquidity. any borrowings by ford credit under the revolving credit facility would be guaranteed by us. the revolving credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the revolving credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the revolving credit facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p (each as defined under total company below), the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. at december 31, 2015, the utilized portion of the revolving credit facility was $48 million, representing amounts utilized as letters of credit. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding the atvm loan. other automotive credit facilities. at december 31, 2015, we had $1.5 billion of local credit facilities available to non-u.s. automotive affiliates, of which $836 million had been utilized. net cash. our automotive sector net cash calculation as of the dates shown was as follows (in billions): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 automotive cash $ 23.6 $ 21.7 $ 24.8 less: long-term debt 11.0 11.3 14.4 debt payable within one year 1.8 2.5 1.3 total debt 12.8 13.8 15.7 net cash $ 10.8 $ 7.9 $ 9.1 total debt at december 31, 2015 was $1 billion lower than at december 31, 2014. the reduction primarily represents debt repayments, offset partially by the addition of the external debt of ford sollers, our joint venture in russia, as a result of the consolidation of the joint venture on march 31, 2015, and higher local funding in brazil. 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) pension plan contributions and strategy. worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $8.2 billion at december 31, 2015, an improvement of $1.6 billion from december 31, 2014, due to higher discount rates and favorable exchange partially offset by asset returns in the united states. the u.s. weighted-average discount rate increased 33 basis points to 4.27% at year-end 2015 from 3.94% at year-end 2014. the non-u.s. weighted average discount rate increased 14 basis points to 3.20% at year-end 2015 from 3.06% at year-end 2014. of the $8.2 billion underfunded status at year-end 2015, $5.7 billion, or about 70%, is associated with our unfunded plans. our strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. the key elements of this strategy include: limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants; reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions; progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities. on december 31, 2015, we adopted a change in accounting method for our defined benefit pension and opeb plans. ford will recognize pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses in the year incurred (generally in the fourth quarter) rather than amortizing them over many years. the remeasurement will be reported as a special item since it is not reflective of the underlying operating results of our automotive business. the change in accounting method will have no effect on our funding requirements, cash flows, or employees' pension or opeb benefits. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information on the change in accounting. in 2015, consistent with our plan, we contributed $1.1 billion to our global funded pension plans (most of which were mandatory contributions), a decrease of $0.4 billion compared with 2014. during 2016, we expect to contribute $1.5 billion from automotive cash to our global funded pension plans (including discretionary contributions of about $400 million). we also expect to make about $300 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of $1.8 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. plans in 2016. after 2016, we expect contributions to our global funded plans to be limited to ongoing service cost of about $500 to $700 million per year. asset returns in 2015 for our u.s. plans were (1.8)% reflecting fixed income losses as interest rates rose, partially offset by positive growth asset returns. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2015 was 77%, unchanged from year-end 2014. asset returns for our non-u.s. plans were 7.7%, reflecting fixed income gains, strongly positive growth asset returns, and favorable exchange. the fixed income mix in our non-u.s. plans at year-end 2015 was 73%, 6 percentage points higher than year-end 2014. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements. leverage . we manage automotive debt levels with a leverage framework to maintain strong, investment grade credit ratings through a normal business cycle. the leverage framework includes a ratio of automotive debt, underfunded pension liabilities, operating leases, and other adjustments, divided by automotive income before income tax, adjusted for depreciation, amortization, automotive interest, and other adjustments. ford credit's leverage is calculated as a separate business as described in the liquidity - financial services section of item 7. ford credit is self-funding and its debt, which is used to fund its operations, is separate from our automotive debt. liquidity sufficiency . one of the four key priorities of our one ford plan is to finance our plan and maintain a strong balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business. based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products and services that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. based on expected cash flows and the identification of additional opportunities for profitable growth, the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, restructuring, and infrastructure is expected to increase to about $9 billion annually by 2020. our capital spending was $7.1 billion and $7.4 billion in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is expected to be about $7.7 billion in 2016. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services sector ford credit funding overview. ford credit's primary funding and liquidity objective is to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet with adequate liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit's liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. ford credit regularly stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it continues to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). ford credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states and other international markets. at december 31, 2015, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $5.9 billion. at december 31, 2015, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was $1.7 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations. public term funding plan. the following table shows ford credit's planned issuances for full-year 2016, and its global public term funding issuances in 2015, 2014, and 2013 (in billions), excluding short-term funding programs: public term funding plan 2016 forecast 2015 2014 2013 unsecured $ 14-18 $ 17 $ 13 $ 11 securitizations (a) 12-15 13 15 14 total $ 26-33 $ 30 $ 28 $ 25 __________ (a) includes rule 144a offerings. in 2015, ford credit completed $30 billion of public term funding in the united states, canada, europe, mexico, china, and australia including $17 billion of unsecured debt and $13 billion of securitizations. for 2016, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $26 billion to $33 billion, consisting of $14 billion to $18 billion of unsecured debt and $12 billion to $15 billion of public securitizations. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding portfolio. the chart below shows the trends in funding for ford credit's managed receivables: at year-end 2015, managed receivables were $127 billion, and ford credit ended the year with $11 billion in cash. securitized funding was 39% of managed receivables. ford credit is projecting 2016 year-end managed receivables of $134 billion to $139 billion and securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables to be between 37% and 40%. ford credit expects this percentage to decline over time; quarterly and annual movements reflect the calendarization of ford credit's funding plan. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the following table shows ford credit's liquidity sources and utilization (in billions): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 liquidity sources cash (a) $ 11.2 $ 8.9 $ 10.8 committed abs facilities (b) 33.2 33.7 29.4 fcar bank lines 3.5 fce/other unsecured credit facilities 2.3 1.6 1.6 ford revolving credit facility allocation 3.0 2.0 total liquidity sources $ 49.7 $ 46.2 $ 45.3 utilization of liquidity securitization cash (c) $ (4.3 ) $ (2.4 ) $ (4.4 ) committed abs facilities (20.6 ) (15.3 ) (14.7 ) fcar bank lines (3.3 ) fce/other unsecured credit facilities (0.8 ) (0.4 ) (0.4 ) ford revolving credit facility allocation total utilization of liquidity (25.7 ) (18.1 ) (22.8 ) gross liquidity 24.0 28.1 22.5 adjustments (d) (0.5 ) (1.6 ) (1.1 ) net liquidity available for use $ 23.5 $ 26.5 $ 21.4 __________ (a) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (b) committed asset-backed security ( abs ) facilities are subject to availability of sufficient assets, ability to obtain derivatives to manage interest rate risk, and exclude fce bank plc ( fce ) access to the bank of england's discount window facility. (c) used only to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. (d) adjustments include other committed abs facilities in excess of eligible receivables and certain cash within fordrev available through future sales of receivables. at december 31, 2015, ford credit had total liquidity sources of $49.7 billion compared with total liquidity sources of $46.2 billion at december 31, 2014. its liquidity sources of committed capacity and cash are diversified across a variety of markets and platforms. the utilization of its liquidity totaled $25.7 billion at year-end 2015, compared with $18.1 billion at year-end 2014. the increase of $7.6 billion reflects higher securitization cash and usage of its committed abs facilities. ford credit ended 2015 with gross liquidity of $24 billion. after adjustments totaling $0.5 billion, total liquidity available for use continues to remain strong at $23.5 billion at year-end 2015, $3 billion lower than year-end 2014. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. ford credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity. the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 total debt (a) $ 119.6 $ 105.0 $ 98.7 equity 11.7 11.4 10.6 financial statement leverage (to 1) 10.2 9.2 9.3 __________ (a) includes debt issued in securitization transactions and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table shows the calculation of ford credit's managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 total debt (a) $ 119.6 $ 105.0 $ 98.7 adjustments for cash (b) (11.2 ) (8.9 ) (10.8 ) adjustments for derivative accounting (c) (0.5 ) (0.4 ) (0.2 ) total adjusted debt $ 107.9 $ 95.7 $ 87.7 equity $ 11.7 $ 11.4 $ 10.6 adjustments for derivative accounting (c) (0.3 ) (0.4 ) (0.3 ) total adjusted equity $ 11.4 $ 11.0 $ 10.3 managed leverage (to 1) (d) 9.5 8.7 8.5 __________ (a) includes debt issued in securitization transactions and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions. (b) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities). (c) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. (d) equals total adjusted debt over total adjusted equity. ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2015, ford credit's managed leverage was 9.5:1, compared with 8.7:1 at december 31, 2014, reflecting the strength of the u.s. dollar and year-end receivables at the top end of the forecasted range. in 2016, ford credit expects managed leverage to return to the upper-end of the targeted range of 8:1 to 9:1. in 2015, ford credit paid $250 million in distributions to its parent, ford holdings llc. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total company equity. at december 31, 2015, total equity was $28.7 billion, an increase of $4.2 billion compared with december 31, 2014. the increase primarily reflects favorable changes in retained earnings of $5 billion related to full-year 2015 net income attributable to ford motor company of $7.4 billion, net of cash dividends declared of $2.4 billion; favorable changes in capital in excess of par value of stock related to compensation-related equity issuances of $332 million; offset partially by unfavorable changes in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) of about $1 billion (more than explained by unfavorable foreign currency translation adjustments) and an increase in treasury stock of $129 million. credit ratings. our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ( dbrs ); fitch, inc. ( fitch ); moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of mcgraw hill financial ( s&amp;p ). in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. the following rating actions were taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2015: on november 23, 2015, s&amp;p affirmed its ratings for ford and ford credit, and revised the outlook to positive from stable. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb (low) bbb (low) positive bbb (low) r-3 positive bbb (low) fitch bbb- bbb- positive bbb- f3 positive bbb- moody's n/a baa3 stable baa3 p-3 stable baa3 s&amp;p * bbb- bbb- positive bbb- a-3 positive bbb- __________ * s&amp;p assigns fce a long-term senior unsecured credit rating of bbb, a one-notch higher rating than ford and ford credit, with a stable outlook. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) return on invested capital. we analyze total company performance using a return on invested capital ( roic )financial metric based on an after-tax rolling five-year average basis, which we believe is appropriate given our industry's product and investment cycles. the following table contains the calculation of our five-year average roic for the years shown: 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2015 planning assumptions and key metrics the following summarizes results against planning assumptions and key metrics established at the beginning of 2015: 2014 full year 2015 full year results plan results planning assumptions (mils.) industry volume -- u.s. 16.8 17.0 - 17.5 17.8 -- europe 20 14.6 14.8 - 15.3 16.0 -- china (a) 24.0 24.5 - 26.5 25.1 key metrics automotive (compared with 2014): - revenue (bils.) $ 135.8 higher $ 140.6 - operating margin 4.6 % higher 6.8 % - operating-related cash flow (bils.) (b) $ 3.6 higher $ 7.3 ford credit (compared with 2014): - pre-tax profit (bils.) $ 1.9 equal to or higher $ 2.1 total company: - pre-tax profit (bils.) (b)(c) $ 7.3 $10.0 - $11.0 $ 10.8 __________ (a) china industry volume is based on estimated wholesales. (b) excludes special items; reconciliation to gaap for full-year 2014 and 2015 provided in results of operations and liquidity and capital resources, above. (c) the 2015 plan was updated on january 7, 2016 in connection with the change in accounting method for our defined benefit and opeb plans. production volumes (a) our 2015 production volumes and first quarter 2016 projected production volumes are as follows (in thousands): 2015 actual 2016 forecast fourth quarter full year first quarter units o/(u) 2014 units o/(u) 2014 units o/(u) 2015 north america 800 102 3,130 161 840 117 south america 67 (38 ) 348 (51 ) 65 (37 ) europe 393 65 1,609 171 420 (16 ) middle east &amp; africa 17 (2 ) 83 7 20 (1 ) asia pacific 428 52 1,504 65 435 62 total 1,705 179 6,674 353 1,780 125 _________ (a) includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced by our unconsolidated affiliates. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook total company our 2016 outlook by segment is as follows: 2015 full year results 2016 full year plan automotive (mils.) north america $ 9,345 about equal to 2015 - operating margin (pct.) 10.2 % 9.5% or higher south america $ (832 ) greater loss than 2015 europe 259 higher than 2015 middle east &amp; africa 31 equal to or higher than 2015 asia pacific 765 higher than 2015 other automotive (796 ) loss of about $800 million ford credit (mils.) $ 2,086 equal to or higher than 2015 2016 planning assumptions and key metrics based on the current economic environment, our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2016 include the following: 2015 full year results 2016 full year plan gdp growth outlook planning assumptions (mils.) industry volume - u.s. 17.8 17.5 - 18.5 2.3 - 2.8 % - europe (a) 19.2 19.0 - 20.0 1.2 - 1.7 % - brazil 2.6 2.0 - 2.5 (2.0) - (3.0) % - china (b) 23.5 23.5 - 25.5 6.5 - 7.0 % key metrics automotive: - revenue (bils.) $ 140.6 equal to or higher than 2015 - operating margin (pct.) 6.8 % equal to or higher than 2015 - operating-related cash flow (bils.) (c) $ 7.3 strong, but lower than 2015 total company pre-tax profit (bils.) (c) $ 10.8 equal to or higher than 2015 operating effective tax rate (pct.) (d) 28.6 % low 30s operating eps (c) $ 1.93 equal to or higher than 2015 __________ (a) europe industry reflects total europe, including turkey and russia. (b) industry volume is based on estimated vehicle registrations. (c) excludes special items; reconciliation to gaap for full-year 2015 provided in results of operations and liquidity and capital resources above. (d) excludes special items. we expect continued benchmark profitability in north america in 2016 as we launch important high-volume products, such as escape, fusion, and super duty, and pursue emerging opportunities through ford smart mobility. in south america, we expect losses to be higher in 2016 as industry volumes reduce further and regional currencies weaken. we expect europe's profit to grow in 2016 as we take further actions on costs to improve europe's breakeven volume, help offset increasing regulatory costs, and invest in profitable, growing product segments and mobility services. we expect middle east &amp; africa to deliver results in 2016 that are equal to or higher than 2015 as we continue to implement the growth strategy we developed in 2015. we expect asia pacific's profits to be higher in 2016 and we expect industry growth in china, partially as a result of the purchase tax reduction introduced in 2015. ford credit expects its pre-tax profit in 2016 to be equal to or higher than in 2015. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we expect our operating effective tax rate to be in the low 30 percent range in 2016. in 2015, legislation was enacted in the fourth quarter that retroactively reinstated the u.s. research credit and other provisions of tax law that had expired. this late action contributed to our lower fourth quarter operating effective tax rate. the legislation made the research credit and certain other provisions permanent, which will eliminate the rate variability associated with such retroactive extensions of law. in total, we expect 2016 to be another outstanding year. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors; decline in ford's market share or failure to achieve growth; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services; market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states; an increase in or continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, or other events; economic distress of suppliers that may require ford to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase costs, affect liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors); single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure; substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change; the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; a change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements committing ford to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts); adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets; cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and field service actions nature of estimates required. we provide warranties on the products we sell. separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. we accrue the estimated cost of both basic warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. assumptions and approach used. we establish estimates for warranty and field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty and field service obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary. warranty coverages vary; therefore, our warranty accruals vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale for specific periods of time and/or mileage. field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the basic warranty coverage period. our best estimate of the obligation related to field service actions includes expected future payments related to vehicles produced in the most recent eight model years and announced field service actions for vehicles produced before this period. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve to determine the year-end obligations. beginning in 2016, we changed the approach used to estimate the service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and opeb for plans that utilize a yield curve approach. with this refinement, we will measure service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows for each component. we believe the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. this refinement has no effect on the measurement of our plan obligations or on full year pension and opeb expense as lower service and interest costs recorded quarterly are offset in the fourth quarter remeasurement. we have accounted for this as a change in accounting estimate and accordingly, have accounted for it on a prospective basis. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return assumption reflects the historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy such as asset mix. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. assumptions are set at each year end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement. on december 31, 2015, we adopted a change in accounting method for our defined benefit pension and opeb plans retrospectively. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information. with this change, the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions (remeasurement gain/loss) are recognized within net periodic benefit costs in the period of remeasurement. see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2015 weighted average discount rate was 4.27% for u.s. plans and 3.20% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting increases of 33 and 14 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2014. in 2015, the u.s. actual return on assets was (1.8)%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.75%. non-u.s. actual return on assets was 7.7%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.11%. non-u.s. asset returns reflect the impact of a change in valuation technique for ford-werke pension plan assets (see note 12 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information). in total, these differences, in addition to demographic and other updates, resulted in a net loss of $1 billion which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item within the automotive sector. for 2016, the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.75% for u.s. plans unchanged from 2015, and 5.56% for non-u.s. plans, down 55 basis points compared with a year ago, reflecting primarily a higher fixed income allocation . worldwide pension costs, excluding special items, was income of about $300 million in 2015, about $500 million better than 2014, driven primarily by lower interest costs and strong asset returns at year-end 2014. based on year-end assumptions, we expect 2016 pension expense to be similar to 2015. de-risking strategy . in 2012, we adopted a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. as we de-risk our plans and increase the allocation to fixed income investments over time, we expect the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will be significantly reduced. changes in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2015 pension funded status and 2016 expense are affected by year-end 2015 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our net funded status. the table below estimates the impact as of december 31, 2015 on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point december 31, 2015 funded status factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $4,500/$(5,500) $4,000/$(5,100) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (4,200)/5,200 (2,600)/3,200 net impact on funded status $300/$(300) $1,400/$(1,900) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., bond coupon and active management excess returns), and growth asset returns. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. discount rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the table below estimates the impact on 2016 pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point 2016 expense factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 bps. $30/$(30) $5/$(5) expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 25 (100)/100 (60)/60 the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for u.s. opeb plans at december 31, 2015 was 4.22%, compared with 3.86% at december 31, 2014, resulting in a worldwide gain of about $300 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item within the automotive sector. sensitivity analysis. discount rates have the largest impact on our opeb obligation and expense. the table below estimates the impact on 2016 pension expense of higher/lower assumptions for these factors (in millions): worldwide opeb basis (increase)/decrease 2015 ye obligation increase/(decrease) 2016 expense point factor change discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $600/$(700) n/a discount rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 n/a $5/$(5) income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $1.8 billion is required, primarily for deferred tax assets related to our south america operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $11 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets, and concluded that no valuation allowance is required. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses represents ford credit ' estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date. the adequacy of ford credit's allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables and on operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. the models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit ' present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. therefore, ford credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit's allowance for credit losses is based on assumptions regarding: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. collective allowance for credit losses. the collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to- receivables ( ltr ) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. the ltr model is based on the most recent years of history. each ltr is calculated by dividing credit losses by average finance receivables or average operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and allowance for credit losses. an average ltr is calculated for each product and multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. the loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail or lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to ford credit's active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred. the loss emergence period ( lep ) is a key assumption within ford credit's models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. this time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. it is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. the lep is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. for accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. specific allowance for impaired receivables . consumer receivables involved in troubled debt restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the contracts original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln brand retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage point change december 31, 2015 allowance for credit losses 2016 expense repossession ratios (a) +/- 0.1 pt. $37/$(37) $37/$(37) loss severity +/- 1.0 4/(4) 4/(4) __________ (a) reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical ltr ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral. collective allowance for credit losses. ford credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using a ltr model for each financing product based on historical experience. this ltr is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables ltr approach. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. specific allowance for impaired receivables. dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). the loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the provision for credit losses and insurance losses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet, in each case under the financial services sector. 83 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 6 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln brand operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage change december 31, 2015 accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases 2016 expense future auction values +/- 1.0 $(101)/$101 $(35)/$35 return volumes +/- 1.0 13/(13) 6/(6) the impact of the increased accumulated supplemental depreciation in 2015 would be charged to expense in the 2016 - 2019 periods. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases , in each case under the financial services sector. 84 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accounting standards issued but not yet adopted the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has issued the following standards, which are not expected to have a material impact (with the exception of standard 2014-09) to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures. standard effective date (a) 2015-16 business combinations - simplifying the accounting for measurement-period adjustments january 1, 2016 2015-09 insurance - disclosures about short-duration contracts january 1, 2016 2015-05 internal-use software - customer's accounting for fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement january 1, 2016 2015-02 consolidation - amendments to the consolidation analysis january 1, 2016 2015-01 extraordinary and unusual items - simplifying income statement presentation by eliminating the concept of extraordinary items january 1, 2016 2014-16 derivatives and hedging - determining whether the host contract in a hybrid financial instrument issued in the form of a share is more akin to debt or to equity january 1, 2016 2014-13 consolidation - measuring the financial assets and the financial liabilities of a consolidated collateralized financing entity january 1, 2016 2014-12 stock compensation - accounting for share-based payments when the terms of an award provide that a performance target could be achieved after the requisite service period january 1, 2016 2014-15 going concern - disclosure of uncertainties about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern december 31, 2016 2015-17 income taxes - balance sheet classification of deferred taxes january 1, 2017 2016-01 financial instruments - recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities january 1, 2018 2014-09 revenue - revenue from contracts with customers january 1, 2018 (b) __________ (a) early adoption for each of the standards, except standard 2016-01, is permitted. (b) for additional information see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. 85 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2015 (in millions): payments due by period 2016 2017 - 2018 2019 - 2020 2021 and thereafter total automotive sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) $ 944 $ 2,210 $ 1,659 $ 7,556 $ 12,369 interest payments relating to long-term debt 629 1,067 910 6,702 9,308 capital leases (b) 19 89 14 8 130 pension funding (c) 475 475 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,656 1,527 654 613 4,450 operating leases 267 367 174 73 881 total automotive sector 3,990 5,260 3,411 14,952 27,613 financial services sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) 29,096 45,538 20,423 12,622 107,679 interest payments relating to long-term debt 2,416 3,200 1,773 1,247 8,636 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 17 35 1 53 operating leases 8 9 4 7 28 total financial services sector 31,537 48,782 22,201 13,876 116,396 total company $ 35,527 $ 54,042 $ 25,612 $ 28,828 $ 144,009 __________ (a) excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments. (b) includes interest payments of $6 million. (c) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. plans. see note 12 for further information regarding our expected 2016 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2015 of $1.6 billion (see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 6, 12, and 13, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 86 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 87 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk), as of december 31, 2015, was an asset of $322 million compared with a liability of $130 million as of december 31, 2014. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been $2.2 billion at december 31, 2015, compared with $2.1 billion at december 31, 2014. the sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies. in reality, foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure. see note 16 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts). the net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2015 was a liability of $24 million compared with a liability of $66 million as of december 31, 2014. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be $62 million at december 31, 2015, compared with $63 million at december 31, 2014. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2015, we had $23.6 billion in our automotive investment portfolios, compared to $21.7 billion at december 31, 2014. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $186 million as calculated as of december 31, 2015. this compares to $148 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2014. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk. counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities and market-based credit default swap ( cds ) spreads . the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer-dated exposures . our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. 88 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk - the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; credit risk - the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk - the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and liquidity risk - the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit's overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks. a discussion of ford credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. interest rate risk . generally, ford credit's assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured debt and securitizations. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, ford credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of its assets, in most instances with maturities up to ten years. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a parallel shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. 89 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2015 and 2014 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates) (a) december 31, 2015 $ 7 $ (7 ) december 31, 2014 (46 ) 46 _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros, pound sterling, and renminbi. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure, relating to changes in currency exchange rates at december 31, 2015, is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments as of december 31, 2015 was an asset of $681 million, compared to an asset of $692 million as of december 31, 2014.risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability . if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow . for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services, or failure to achieve expected growth. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of emerging opportunities depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of electrification, autonomy, and mobility. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2016 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 32 million units in 2016. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 item 1a. risk factors (continued) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. concerns persist regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual european currency area ( euro area ) countries. these concerns have been exacerbated by brexit, which, among other things, has resulted in a weaker sterling versus u.s. dollar and euro. we have a sterling revenue exposure and a euro cost exposure; a sustained weakening of sterling against euro may have an adverse effect on our profitability. further, the united kingdom may be at risk of losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, which may result in increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports that could have an adverse effect on our profitability. fce bank plc ( fce ), our subsidiary, is a bank authorized by the u.k. government to carry on a range of regulated activities within the united kingdom and through a branch network in 11 other european countries through a passporting system, which allows it to establish or provide its services in the eu27 without further authorization requirements. if passporting arrangements cease to be effective as a result of brexit, fce could be required to reconsider its structure or seek additional authorizations to continue to do business in the eu27, which may be time-consuming and costly. the economic and policy uncertainty on-going in the euro area highlights potential longer-term risks regarding its sustainability. this uncertainty could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business or, if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or- in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and other postretirement liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end, and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. at december 31, 2016, we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. in 2015, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution . our shareholders approved the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2016. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers. the cost to complete a recall or customer satisfaction action could be exacerbated to the extent such action relates to a global platform. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services, or failure to achieve expected growth . increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles increase sharply to 51.4 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles beginning in the 2018 model year. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the u.s. government has pursued an enforcement action against a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light duty diesel vehicles, collecting billions of dollars for environmental remediation projects and civil penalties. several of the competitor's employees have been indicted on charges of committing federal crimes. the competitor also faces various class action suits, as well as numerous claims and investigations by various u.s. states and other nations. the emergence of this issue has led to increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world , which in turn has triggered investigations of other manufacturers. these events may lead to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. the techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. a significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our corporate credit facility), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $13.4 billion. certain of our subsidiaries have standby or revolving credit facilities on which they depend for liquidity. if the financial institutions that provide commitments under the corporate credit facility, our subsidiaries' standby or revolving credit facilities, or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to the financial statements. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital and liquidity. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we have approximately 48,000 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just over five years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 3 item 1. business (continued) warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions. we provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 24 of the notes to the financial statements. industry volume, market share, and wholesales our industry volume, market share, and wholesale unit volume in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: industry volume (a) market share (b) wholesales (c) (in millions of units) (as a percentage) (in thousands of units) 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 united states 16.8 17.8 17.9 14.7 % 14.7 % 14.6 % 2,457 2,677 2,588 canada 1.9 1.9 2.0 15.5 14.4 15.4 288 285 313 mexico 1.2 1.4 1.6 6.9 6.4 6.2 77 93 103 north america 20.2 21.5 21.8 14.2 14.0 13.9 2,842 3,073 3,019 brazil 3.5 2.6 2.1 9.4 % 10.4 % 9.2 % 320 250 182 argentina 0.7 0.6 0.7 14.1 14.9 13.6 94 94 101 south america 5.3 4.2 3.7 8.9 9.6 8.8 463 381 325 united kingdom 2.8 3.1 3.1 14.4 % 14.3 % 14.0 % 425 447 428 germany 3.4 3.5 3.7 7.1 7.3 7.6 237 261 283 russia 2.5 1.6 1.5 2.6 2.4 2.9 57 38 45 turkey 0.8 1.0 1.0 11.7 12.6 11.4 91 128 116 europe 18.6 19.2 20.1 7.2 7.7 7.7 1,387 1,530 1,539 middle east &amp; africa 4.3 4.3 3.6 4.6 % 4.4 % 4.5 % 192 187 161 china 24.0 23.5 26.4 4.5 % 4.8 % 4.8 % 1,116 1,160 1,267 australia 1.1 1.2 1.2 7.2 6.1 6.9 80 71 82 india 3.2 3.5 3.7 2.4 2.1 2.4 77 78 86 asean (d) 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.3 3.7 94 94 115 asia pacific (e) 39.7 39.1 42.1 3.5 3.6 3.8 1,439 1,464 1,607 global 88.1 88.2 91.4 7.1 % 7.4 % 7.3 % n/a n/a n/a total company n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 6,323 6,635 6,651 ______________ (a) industry volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry volume in the relevant market or region. market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (c) wholesale unit volume includes sales of medium and heavy trucks. wholesale unit volume includes all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volume. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volume (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. (d) asean includes indonesia, philippines, thailand, vietnam, and malaysia. (e) asia pacific market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. 4 item 1. business (continued) financial services segment ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford credit offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases for new vehicles to retail and commercial customers including leasing companies, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. ford credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (i.e., floorplan financing), as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers, ford-related loans, and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operations are managed through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany, representing 65% of fce's finance receivables and operating leases at year-end 2016. the following table shows ford credit's financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicle retail sales in the united states and new ford vehicles sold in europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe: years ended december 31, 2014 2015 2016 united states - financing share retail installment and lease share of ford retail sales 63 % 65 % 56 % wholesale 77 76 76 europe - financing share retail installment and lease share of total ford sales 36 % 37 % 37 % wholesale 98 98 98 see item 7 and notes 6 , 7 , and 8 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. we have an amended and restated relationship agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5:1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5:1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. the agreement also allocates to ford credit $3 billion of commitments under our corporate credit facility. in a separate agreement with fce, ford credit also has agreed to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million; no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 5 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements federal and california emission standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. in 2014, the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) finalized new tier 3 regulations that phase in increasingly stringent motor vehicle emission standards beginning with the 2017 model year. pursuant to the clean air act, california may establish its own vehicle emission standards, which can then be adopted by other states. the california air resources board ( carb ) has adopted lev iii standards, which took effect with the 2015 model year and impose increasingly stringent tailpipe and evaporative emissions requirements for light and medium duty vehicles. thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the lev iii standards. compliance with both the tier 3 and lev iii standards could be challenging. both federal and california regulations require motor vehicles to be equipped with on-board diagnostic ( obd ) systems that monitor emission-related systems and components. as obd requirements become more complex and challenging over time, they could lead to increased vehicle recalls and warranty costs. compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. fuel variables that can affect vehicle emissions include ethanol content, octane ratings, and the use of metallic-based fuel additives, among other things. there are various ongoing regulatory and judicial proceedings related to fuel quality at the national and state level, and the outcome of these proceedings could affect vehicle manufacturers' warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards. the california vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ). the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles, particularly for the 2018 2025 model years. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with zev rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volume of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, especially if gasoline prices remain relatively low . we also are concerned about enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. carb conducts periodic reviews of its upcoming zev requirements, taking into account factors such as technology developments and market acceptance. ford and the industry will be active participants in such reviews, with the goal of ensuring that zev requirements are feasible and not excessively burdensome. european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new stage 6 emission standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in september 2014, with a second phase beginning in september 2017. these standards will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. the european commission has also proposed new real driving emission ( rde ) rules, which will require manufacturers to conduct on-road emission tests using portable emission analyzers. these on-road emission tests will complement the laboratory-based tests. during the initial phase, which started in january 2016, the rde tests are used for monitoring purposes. beginning in september 2017, manufacturers will have to reduce the divergence between the regulatory limit that is tested in laboratory conditions and the values of rde tests ( conformity factors ). the additional costs associated with conducting the rde tests and complying with the conformity factors are expected to be significant. europe is in process of drafting the rde in-use surveillance rules with proposals to allow third parties to conduct testing and to define a process to challenge the product compliance with authorities. on a longer term approach, the wvta (whole vehicle type approval) regulations are being adapted to cover market surveillance, which is further expected to increase testing by authorities across europe from 2020+. 6 item 1. business (continued) other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emission regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china adopted emission regulations based on european stage vi emission standards and u.s. evaporative emissions and on-board diagnostic requirements. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. although these countries have adopted regulations based on un-ece or u.s. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. tier 2 requirements. in july 2015, the canadian federal government amended the on-road vehicle and engine emission regulations and the sulphur in gasoline regulations to align canadian emission standards with the u.s. tier 3 regulations discussed above. in october 2016, the canadian province of quebec passed legislation enabling regulation of a zev mandate. regulations are still under development but quebec has signaled that they plan to follow california and northeast states' regulations. not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emission standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if on-board diagnostic or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. brazil and chile have introduced stringent emission and on-board diagnostic standards based on the european stage 5 standards for light duty vehicles and stage v standards for heavy duty vehicles. in brazil, all light duty vehicles are required to meet u.s.-based proconve l6 standards and more stringent on-board diagnostic standards for diesel light duty vehicles were introduced in 2017. argentina is phasing in european stage 5 standards for all new light duty vehicle registrations by 2017 and european stage v standards for heavy duty vehicles by 2018. global developments. since september 2015, the epa and carb have pursued enforcement actions against a major competitor in connection with its use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light-duty diesel vehicles. these actions have resulted in settlements involving billions of dollars for environmental remediation and civil penalties, as well as indictments of several employees on charges of committing federal crimes. the competitor continues to face various class action suits, as well as numerous claims and investigations by various u.s. states and other nations. defeat devices are elements of design (typically embedded in software) that improperly cause the emission control system to function less effectively during normal on-road driving than during an official laboratory emissions test, without justification. they are prohibited by law in many jurisdictions, including the united states and europe. we do not use defeat devices in our vehicles. the investigations by epa and carb of our competitor have led to increased scrutiny of automakers' emission testing by regulators around the world. epa began carrying out additional non-standard tests as part of its vehicle certification program, following an announcement in september 2015. the eu accelerated efforts to finalize its rde testing program as described above. in 2016, several european countries, including france and germany, conducted non-standard emission tests and published the results. in some cases, this supplemental testing has triggered investigations of other manufacturers for possible defeat devices. testing is expected to continue on an ongoing basis. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards u.s. requirements light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light duty trucks. epa also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions under the clean air act. because the vast majority of ghgs emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, ghg emission standards effectively are fuel economy standards. thus, it is necessary for nhtsa and epa to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and ghg standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies. in 2010, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations establishing the one national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. these rules require 7 item 1. business (continued) manufacturers to achieve, across the industry, a light duty fleet average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, 45 mpg by the 2021 model year, and 51.4 mpg by the 2025 model year. each manufacturer's specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions, and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by the epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the one national program standards become increasingly stringent over time, and they will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. we are concerned about the commercial feasibility of meeting future model year ghg and cafe standards, particularly the 2022-2025 standards, because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future. the one national program rules provided for a midterm evaluation process under which, by april 2018, epa and nhtsa would re-evaluate their standards for model years 2022-2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. shortly before president obama left office in january 2017, epa announced an accelerated decision to maintain the ghg standards originally set for those model years. nhtsa is continuing to conduct its evaluation with respect to the model year 2022-2025 standards. it remains to be seen whether the epa determination will be reconsidered under president trump's administration, and whether the epa and nhtsa determinations will ultimately be harmonized with each other. if the agencies seek to impose and enforce fuel economy and ghg standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. california has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. with the adoption of the federal one national program standards discussed above, california and the other states have agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with any purported state ghg requirements for the 2012 2025 model years. this avoids a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. should california and other states ever renew their efforts to enforce state-specific motor vehicle ghg rules, this would impose significant costs on automotive manufacturers. u.s. requirements heavy duty vehicles. epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated ghg and fuel economy standards on heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating). in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. in 2016, epa and nhtsa finalized ghg and fuel economy standards for these vehicles, covering model years 2019 2027. as the heavy-duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions beginning in 2012 that limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ( g/km ), using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ( eco-innovations ), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. a penalty system will apply for manufacturers failing to meet targets. pooling agreements between different manufacturers are possible, although it is not clear that these will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. starting in 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set, for which 95% of a manufacturer's fleet has to comply; by 2021, 100% of a manufacturer's fleet has to comply. other non-eu european countries are likely to follow with similar regulations. for example, switzerland has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in starting in july 2012 with the same targets (which include a 2020 target of 95 g/km, with conditions still to be defined), although the industry average emission target is significantly higher. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impact our average fleet performance. in separate legislation, complementary measures have been mandated, including requirements related to fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission, council and parliament have approved a target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020. it is likely that other european countries, will implement similar rules 8 item 1. business (continued) but under even more difficult conditions. for instance, switzerland will implement the same 147 g/km target in 2020 but under more difficult conditions. this regulation also provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for multi-stage vehicles (e.g., our transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, super-credits for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. the united nations developed a new technical regulation for passenger car emissions and co 2. this new world light duty test procedure ( wltp ) is focused primarily on better aligning laboratory co 2 and fuel consumption figures with customer-reported figures. the introduction of wltp in europe is likely to require updates to co 2 labeling as early as 2018 and will increase certain consumer label values, thereby impacting taxes in countries with a co 2 tax scheme. costs associated with new or incremental testing for wltp could be significant. the european commission requires mandatory wltp testing for regulated emissions and co 2 starting in september 2017. the european commission has assured comparable stringency to the existing fleet average rules for each automobile manufacturer if the 2021 fleet average targets are required to be measured on wltp instead of under the current european new european driving cycle ( nedc ) requirements. the legislative framework and process for the target translation is currently under development. the european commission confirmed in october 2016 that there would be a delay in the introduction of a timetable for a post-2020 co 2 proposal. the proposal is now expected to be released during the second half of 2017. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. to limit ghg emissions, the eu directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower global warming potential refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in january 2017. a refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole manufacturing chain. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014 2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in february 2013. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the notice of intent to regulate heavy duty vehicles and engines for model year 2019 and beyond, which tracks u.s. epa standards. mexico adopted fuel economy/co 2 standards, based on the u.s. one national program framework, that took effect in 2014. many asia pacific countries (such as australia, china, india, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam) are developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, south korea has set fuel efficiency targets for 2020, with incentives for early adoption. china published standards for stage iv fuel efficiency targets for 2016 2020. the fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for all light-duty vehicles. brazil has required inclusion of emission classification on fuel economy labels since january 2016. brazil also published a new automotive regime establishing a minimum absolute cafe value as a function of fleet corporate average mass for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved. a severe penalty system will apply to qualified manufacturers failing to meet fuel efficiency requirements for the 2013 2017 sales period. brazil reduced import tax on electric and hybrid cars. the tax rate, which was 35%, will vary from zero to 7%, depending on a vehicle's energy efficiency. discussion on new fuel efficiency requirements has started. chile introduced a tax based on urban fuel consumption and nox emission for light and medium vehicles beginning in late 2014. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. in the middle east, the kingdom of saudi arabia introduced new light duty vehicle fuel economy standards, which are patterned after the u.s. cafe standard structure, with fuel economy targets following the design of the u.s. 2012 2016 fuel economy standards. the standards became effective on january 1, 2016 and will be fully phased in by the end of 2017. 9 item 1. business (continued) vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emission and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance issue exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new safety and recall requirements in china, india, and gulf cooperation council countries also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. in south america, additional safety requirements are being introduced or proposed in argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and uruguay, influenced by the new car assessment program for latin america and the caribbean ( latin ncap ), which may be a driver for similar actions in other countries. in canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with u.s. regulations. however, recent amendments to the canadian motor vehicle safety act have introduced broad powers to the minister of transport to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the minister considers it would be in the interest of safety. new car assessment programs. organizations around the globe rate and compare motor vehicles in new car assessment programs ( ncaps ) to provide consumers with additional information about the safety of new vehicles. ncaps use crash tests and other evaluations that are different than what is required by applicable regulations, and use stars to rate vehicle safety, with five stars awarded for the highest rating and one for the lowest. achieving high ncap ratings can add complexity and cost to vehicles. employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2015 and 2016 was as follows (in thousands): 2015 2016 automotive north america 96 101 south america 15 15 europe 53 52 middle east &amp; africa 3 3 asia pacific 25 23 financial services ford credit 7 7 total 199 201 substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive segment are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). at december 31, 2016, approximately 57,000 hourly employees in the united states were represented by the uaw, an increase of about 3,000 employees since december 31, 2015. approximately 1.5% of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the united states also are represented by unions. 10 item 1. business (continued) in 2016, we entered into collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, brazil, canada, france, germany, italy, mexico, romania, russia, south africa, taiwan and thailand. in 2017, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, australia, brazil, britain, france, india, mexico, romania, russia, and thailand. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products and services (including for emerging opportunities). engineering, research, and development expenses for 2014, 2015, and 2016 were $6.7 billion, $6.7 billion, and $7.3 billion, respectively. item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability . if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow . for discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services, or failure to achieve expected growth. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of emerging opportunities depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of electrification, autonomy, and mobility. market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles at levels beyond our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2016 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 32 million units in 2016. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 item 1a. risk factors (continued) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. concerns persist regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual european currency area ( euro area ) countries. these concerns have been exacerbated by brexit, which, among other things, has resulted in a weaker sterling versus u.s. dollar and euro. we have a sterling revenue exposure and a euro cost exposure; a sustained weakening of sterling against euro may have an adverse effect on our profitability. further, the united kingdom may be at risk of losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, which may result in increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports that could have an adverse effect on our profitability. fce bank plc ( fce ), our subsidiary, is a bank authorized by the u.k. government to carry on a range of regulated activities within the united kingdom and through a branch network in 11 other european countries through a passporting system, which allows it to establish or provide its services in the eu27 without further authorization requirements. if passporting arrangements cease to be effective as a result of brexit, fce could be required to reconsider its structure or seek additional authorizations to continue to do business in the eu27, which may be time-consuming and costly. the economic and policy uncertainty on-going in the euro area highlights potential longer-term risks regarding its sustainability. this uncertainty could cause financial and capital markets within and outside europe to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business or, if a country within the euro area were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or- in a more extreme circumstance the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world, and on ford's global business, could be immediate and significant. in addition, we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors). a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford or supplier facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. a work stoppage or other limitations on production at ford or supplier facilities for any reason (including but not limited to labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, or production constraints or difficulties) could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). in addition to the general risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. substantial pension and other postretirement liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end, and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change. section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ( tax attributes ). for these purposes, an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. at december 31, 2016, we had tax attributes that would offset more than $15 billion of taxable income. in 2015, we renewed for an additional three-year period our tax benefit preservation plan (the plan ) to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution . our shareholders approved the renewal at our annual meeting in may 2016. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers. the cost to complete a recall or customer satisfaction action could be exacerbated to the extent such action relates to a global platform. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services, or failure to achieve expected growth . increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles increase sharply to 51.4 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles beginning in the 2018 model year. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the u.s. government has pursued an enforcement action against a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light duty diesel vehicles, collecting billions of dollars for environmental remediation projects and civil penalties. several of the competitor's employees have been indicted on charges of committing federal crimes. the competitor also faces various class action suits, as well as numerous claims and investigations by various u.s. states and other nations. the emergence of this issue has led to increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world , which in turn has triggered investigations of other manufacturers. these events may lead to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia, including a constitutional challenge of state incentives that is pending in brazil's supreme court. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier. we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; and/or affect the performance of in-vehicle systems. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. the techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. a significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities. under our corporate credit facility), we are able to borrow, repay, and then re-borrow up to $13.4 billion. certain of our subsidiaries have standby or revolving credit facilities on which they depend for liquidity. if the financial institutions that provide commitments under the corporate credit facility, our subsidiaries' standby or revolving credit facilities, or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7 and note 14 of the notes to the financial statements. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) in some countries outside the united states, some of ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital and liquidity. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes additional costs on ford credit and affects the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair ford credit's profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 17 item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 47% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 98% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. we and the entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2016 use nine regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 62 manufacturing plants as shown in the table below: automotive business units plants north america 29 south america 8 europe 16 middle east &amp; africa 2 asia pacific 7 total 62 included in the number of plants shown above are plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive segment. the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns are as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh imports ford brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific region, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( ford sollers ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc ( sollers ), in which ford has control. the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia, and has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture has been approved to participate in russia's industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia. in addition to its three existing manufacturing facilities in russia, ford sollers launched an engine plant in russia in 2015. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is majority owned (87.43%) by the state of vietnam represented by the ministry of industry and trade) (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. 18 item 2. properties (continued) in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive segment are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of the automotive unconsolidated joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf currently operates five assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant in china where it produces and distributes an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces engines for ford and mazda vehicles manufactured in china. ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also manufactures the cargo truck for the turkish and certain export markets and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license from us. the joint venture owns three plants, a parts distribution depot, and a new research and development center in turkey. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with getrag international gmbh, a german company belonging to magna powertrain gmbh. gft operates plants in halewood, england; cologne, germany; bordeaux, france; and kechnec, slovakia to produce, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles ford transit, ford everest, ford engines, and non-ford vehicles and engines for distribution in china and in other export markets. jmc operates two assembly plants and one engine plant in nanchang. in 2015, jmc opened a new plant in taiyuan to assemble heavy duty trucks and engines. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment, and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to the operations' total assets. 19 item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 24 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicles. in many, no monetary amount of damages is specified, or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us; we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy, or emerged from bankruptcy relieved of liability for such claims. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, sometimes more than one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. we have two environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: notices of violation to ford chicago assembly plant and dearborn truck plant . on august 17, 2015, the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) issued a notice of violation to our chicago assembly plant and on december 26, 2015, epa issued a notice of violation to our dearborn truck plant. epa alleges that the plants violated several requirements related to their air permits. monetary sanctions, if any, have not yet been determined. 20 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. at this time, we have no such purported class actions filed against us. other matters brazilian tax matters. two brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority currently have outstanding substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. for each assessment, if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state or federal judicial court, which would likely require us to post significant collateral in order to proceed. our appeals with one state and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level. in the other state, where three cases are pending, one remains at the administrative level and two have been appealed to the judicial court. to date we have not been required to post any collateral. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). a decision by cit may be appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit. if we prevail, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. if we do not prevail, cbp would recover the increased duties for prior imports, plus interest, and might assert a claim for penalties. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 21 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2017: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board september 2006 59 mark fields (b) president and chief executive officer july 2014 56 james d. farley, jr. executive vice president president, europe, middle east &amp; africa january 2015 54 joseph r. hinrichs executive vice president president, the americas december 2012 50 stephen t. odell executive vice president global marketing, sales and service january 2015 61 raj nair executive vice president product development and chief technical officer december 2015 52 bob shanks executive vice president and chief financial officer april 2012 64 john casesa group vice president global strategy march 2015 54 ray day group vice president communications march 2013 50 joy falotico group vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. october 2016 49 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services april 2008 51 bennie fowler group vice president quality and new model launch april 2008 60 bradley m. gayton group vice president and general counsel january 2016 53 bruce hettle group vice president manufacturing and labor affairs january 2016 55 marcy klevorn group vice president information technology and chief information officer january 2017 57 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations january 2004 49 kimberly pittel group vice president sustainability, environment &amp; safety engineering january 2017 57 dave schoch group vice president president, asia pacific december 2012 65 hau thai-tang group vice president global purchasing august 2013 50 john lawler vice president and controller june 2016 50 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. each of the officers listed above, except for john casesa, has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. prior to joining ford in march 2015, john casesa was senior managing director of guggenheim partners, where he led the firm's automotive investment banking activities since 2010. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose or by a resolution to fill a vacancy. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 22 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock, and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2015 and 2016: 2015 2016 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 16.74 $ 16.16 $ 15.30 $ 15.84 $ 14.00 $ 14.22 $ 14.04 $ 13.20 low 14.30 14.78 10.44 13.40 11.02 12.00 11.90 11.07 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.40 0.15 0.15 0.15 __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. as of january 31, 2017, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 125,465 holders of common stock and 34 holders of class b stock. in the first quarter of 2016, we repurchased shares of ford common stock from our employees or directors related to certain exercises of stock options, in accordance with our various compensation plans. we also completed a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation granted during 2016. the plan authorized repurchases of up to 10.7 million shares of ford common stock. 23 item 6. selected financial data. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 total revenues $ 133,559 $ 146,917 $ 144,077 $ 149,558 $ 151,800 income before income taxes $ 2,005 $ 14,371 $ 1,234 $ 10,252 $ 6,796 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 89 2,425 4 2,881 2,189 net income 1,916 11,946 1,230 7,371 4,607 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) (7 ) (1 ) (2 ) 11 net income attributable to ford motor company $ 1,917 $ 11,953 $ 1,231 $ 7,373 $ 4,596 earnings per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,815 3,935 3,912 3,969 3,973 basic income $ 0.50 $ 3.04 $ 0.31 $ 1.86 $ 1.16 diluted income 0.49 2.94 0.31 1.84 1.15 cash dividends declared 0.15 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.85 common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high 13.08 18.02 18.12 16.74 14.22 low 8.82 12.10 13.26 10.44 11.02 balance sheet data at year-end total assets $ 189,800 $ 202,204 $ 208,615 $ 224,925 $ 237,951 automotive debt $ 14,256 $ 15,683 $ 13,824 $ 12,839 $ 15,907 financial services debt 90,802 99,005 105,347 120,015 127,063 total equity $ 15,924 $ 26,173 $ 24,465 $ 28,657 $ 29,187 24 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview beginning with the second quarter of 2016, we changed our reportable segments. prior-period amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect the reportable segment change. see note 4 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information. non-gaap financial measures that supplement gaap measures we use both generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and non-gaap financial measures for operational and financial decision making, and to assess company and segment business performance. the non-gaap measures listed below are intended to be considered by users as supplemental information to their equivalent gaap measures, to aid investors in better understanding our financial results. we believe that these non-gaap measures provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends, and a means to assess our period-over-period results. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with gaap. these non-gaap measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in items or events being adjusted. total company adjusted pre-tax profit (most comparable gaap measure: net income attributable to ford) the non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our pre-tax results excluding pre-tax special items. pre-tax special items consist of (i) pension and other postretirement employee benefits ( opeb ) remeasurement gains and losses that are not reflective of our underlying business results, (ii) significant restructuring actions related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and (iii) other items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. when we provide guidance for adjusted pre-tax profit, we do not provide guidance on a net income basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, specifically pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. adjusted earnings per share (most comparable gaap measure: earnings per share) measure of company's diluted net earnings per share adjusted for impact of pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides investors with useful information to evaluate performance of our business excluding items not indicative of the underlying run rate of our business. when we provide guidance for adjusted earnings per share, we do not provide guidance on an earnings per share basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, specifically pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. adjusted effective tax rate (most comparable gaap measure: effective tax rate) measure of company's tax rate excluding pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides an ongoing effective rate which investors find useful for historical comparisons and for forecasting. when we provide guidance for adjusted effective tax rate, we do not provide guidance on an effective tax rate basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, specifically pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. ford credit managed receivables (most comparable gaap measure: net finance receivables plus net investment in operating leases) measure of ford credit's total net receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). the measure is useful to management and investors as it closely approximates the customer's outstanding balance on the receivables, which is the basis for earning revenue. ford credit managed leverage (most comparable gaap measure: financial statement leverage) ford credit's debt-to-equity ratio adjusted (i) to exclude cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (other than amounts related to insurance activities), and (ii) for derivative accounting. the measure is useful to investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are deducted because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support operations and on-balance sheet securitization transactions. derivative accounting adjustments are made to asset, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments used with ford credit's term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature, so the interim effects of changes in market interest rates are excluded in the calculation of managed leverage. 25 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) revenue our automotive segment revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories; we generally treat sales and marketing incentives as a reduction to revenue. revenue is recorded when all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue at the time of sale. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant automotive legal entity in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services segment revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services segments occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions between our automotive and financial services segments. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive segment total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: contribution costs these costs typically vary with production volume. these costs include material, commodity, warranty, and freight and duty costs. structural costs these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and opeb costs. 26 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) while contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full-year 2016 were $138.8 billion. our automotive segment's material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of these costs and expenses, representing in 2016 about two-thirds of the total amount. structural costs are the largest piece of the remaining balance. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve raised its policy interest rate in december 2016, a move which has been accompanied by an upward shift in longer term interest rates since november 2016. the related shifts in capital flows have contributed to downward pressure on both developed and emerging market currencies globally. in some emerging markets, that pressure is aggravated by low commodity prices, high inflation, or unstable policy environments. additionally, the yen, euro and pound have depreciated as a result of monetary policy easing by the central banks in those markets, as well as ongoing brexit negotiations in europe. the weak yen, in particular, adds significant potential downward pressure on vehicle pricing across many markets globally. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. however, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 125 million units exceeded global production by about 32 million units in 2016. in north america and europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 7% and 21%, respectively, in 2016. in china, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 48% of production in 2016, as manufacturers compete to capitalize on china's future market potential. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 39 million units per year during the period from 2017 to 2021. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price changes. the price of oil has increased since late 2016 as oil producing nations agreed to modest output reductions, although the average oil price for the year was below the 2015 level. other commodity prices have begun to increase as well, with continued volatility likely. over the longer term, commodity prices are likely to trend higher given expectations for global demand growth. 27 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 135% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. in addition, government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade. while we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. in asia pacific, for example, the recent dramatic depreciation of the yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers. over a period of time, the emerging weakness of the yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. as another example, government actions in south america to incentivize local production and balance trade are driving trade frictions between south american countries and also with mexico, resulting in business environment instability and new trade barriers. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. during 2016, mature market government bond yields and inflation were lower than expected. although in recent months interest rates have risen, and deflation risks have receded somewhat, this is occurring against a backdrop of loose monetary policy, particularly in europe and japan. at the same time, government deficits and debt remain at high levels in many major markets. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. for additional information on our assessment of the business environment, refer to the outlook section below. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies in 2016, we updated our vision and strategy to reflect our expansion to be an automotive and mobility company. our strategy is to deliver top quartile shareholder returns through automotive and high-growth mobility businesses. we are doing this by focusing on the strategic priorities in both our core business and emerging opportunities that will fortify, transform, and grow our business. fortifying the profit pillars the profit pillars are the foundation and underlying strength of ford. we are focused on keeping these areas strong and we intend to strengthen them further through new innovations that will continue to address the needs of our customers. trucks, vans, and commercial vehicles. f-series has been the u.s. truck leader for 40 years. we plan to strengthen our truck leadership with the 2018 model year new f-150, which will feature new powertrains, including our first diesel for f-150, and will be equipped with advanced connectivity to provide even more productivity for our customers. in 2020, f-150 will be available in a hybrid version that will improve capability, productivity, and fuel efficiency. the new super duty is off to a strong start, with high average transaction price and mix. and for the second year in a row, we are the commercial vehicle leader in europe. we saw strong performance around the world in 2016 from our ranger mid-size pickup. in 2019, ranger will be joining f-150 and super duty in north america, expanding our pickup portfolio in our largest market. utilities. we will introduce an all-new aluminum-body expedition in 2017 with new capability. we also plan to introduce five other all-new utilities through 2020, including an all-new bronco and an all-new fully electric utility vehicle that will have an expected range of at least 300 miles. performance vehicles. we are on track to deliver 12 new performance vehicles by the end of the decade, including the all-new raptor and ford gt. mustang will be available in a hybrid version by 2020, delivering v-8 equivalent power with greater low-end torque. ford credit. ford credit remains a strategic asset to our automotive business around the world, delivering class-leading services. ford customer service division. our parts and service business continues to grow, including a significant expansion of quick lane globally, adding to customer satisfaction and owner loyalty. 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) transforming the underperforming parts of the business in addition to fortifying our profit pillars, we are transforming the underperforming parts of our business. luxury. sales for lincoln were up 24% globally and tripled in china in 2016, and lincoln is being recognized for product appeal, quality, and customer satisfaction. we are strengthening the lincoln product portfolio with the continental flagship launched in 2016 and the all-new aluminum-body navigator to be launched in 2017. we will continue to evaluate further opportunities to improve returns on capital in the lincoln business. small vehicles. small vehicles in developed markets is an area of challenge. we have repositioned and capped capacity for the next generation fiesta in europe and underpinned it with an attractive value entry, our ka+, made in india from a low-cost operation. we are producing the ecosport mini utility for europe and north america in low-cost manufacturing locations. to match capacity with demand, we have cancelled our plans to build a new plant in mexico and will instead build the next-generation focus at an existing plant in mexico. emerging markets. we exited indonesia and japan in 2016, given the lack of a clear path to sustained profitability in these markets. in asean, we returned to a profit in 2016, while in russia, the business improved substantially in 2016, with further improvement expected in 2017. similarly, in south america, we expect results to improve in 2017 as economic conditions begin to turn around. in our middle east &amp; africa operations, we also expect results to improve in 2017 as we work to strengthen our distribution, particularly in the middle east. we achieved significant year-over-year growth in production in india in 2016, driven primarily by strong exports. despite the growth, india remains a significant challenge; we will continue to work this year to evaluate alternative business models for this large and growing emerging market. growing with investments in emerging opportunities we are driving for leadership in three key emerging opportunity areas electrification, autonomy, and mobility. in each area, we are leveraging the strengths of our core business, as well as synergies across the three areas. electrification . in the area of electrification, we are focusing on our profit pillars of trucks, vans, commercial vehicles, utilities, and performance vehicles to provide more to our customers more capability, more productivity, and more performance in addition to better fuel economy. we have 13 new electrified products we plan to bring to market by 2020. these include hybrid versions of the f-150 and mustang, a new transit custom plug-in hybrid in europe, an all-new fully electric small suv with an estimated range of at least 300 miles, and two new electrified police vehicles. autonomy . we continue to make progress in the area of autonomy. we announced in 2016 our intention to produce a high-volume, dedicated, level 4 autonomous vehicle in 2021 for ride sharing applications in a geo-fenced area. we have made progress toward this objective with a new-generation fusion hybrid autonomous development vehicle. it demonstrates the advancement of ford's in-house hardware and software engineering efforts. in 2016, we expanded our autonomous test fleet from 10 to 30 vehicles. in 2017, we plan to further expand the fleet and begin testing in europe. mobility. we are developing mobility services and related business models that are designed to reduce transportation congestion and increase transportation capacity in crowded cities. these cities need more flow, but, at the same time, they need to reduce congestion and they need to reduce pollution. we are moving quickly to develop partnerships with major cities to co-create solutions for congestion. the ford smart mobility team is deploying innovative solutions to support both shared and owned business models, while aggressively developing new products and services. in 2016, ford smart mobility llc acquired chariot, a demand responsive shuttle company that operates in two u.s. cities and has plans to expand to eight cities by the end of 2017, including a city outside the united states. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2016 total company net income attributable to ford. the chart below shows our net income attributable to ford for full year 2016: net income attributable to ford for full year 2016 was $4.6 billion or $1.15 diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock, a decrease of $2.8 billion or $0.69 per share compared with 2015. full year 2016 pre-tax results of our automotive segment, financial services segment, all other, and special items, as well as taxes are discussed in the following sections in results of operations. revenue. company revenue for full year 2016 was $151.8 billion, $2.2 billion higher than a year ago. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for the full year 2016 were $138.8 billion, an increase of about $4.2 billion compared with 2015. the detail for the change is shown below (in billions): 2016 lower/(higher) 2015 volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (0.1 ) contribution costs material excluding commodities (0.3 ) commodities 0.9 warranty and other (0.4 ) structural costs (1.5 ) special items (2.8 ) total $ (4.2 ) 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) equity. at december 31, 2016, total equity attributable to ford was $29.2 billion, an increase of $0.5 billion compared with december 31, 2015. the detail for this change is shown below (in billions): increase/(decrease) net income $ 4.6 dividends (3.4 ) other comprehensive income (0.8 ) compensation-related equity issuances 0.2 treasury stock share repurchases (0.1 ) total $ 0.5 the chart below shows our full year 2016 total company adjusted pre-tax results and pre-tax results of our automotive segment by regional business unit, our financial services segment, and all other, which is mainly net interest expense. our total company adjusted pre-tax profit for full year 2016 was $10.4 billion, or $1.76 of adjusted earnings per share of common and class b stock, a decrease of $425 million or $0.17 per share compared with 2015. our total company adjusted pre-tax profit consisted of our second-best automotive segment profit of $9.4 billion, a solid profit of $1.8 billion in the financial services segment, and a loss of $867 million in all other. automotive results were driven by north america, a record profit in europe, and the second-best profit in asia pacific. in total, our automotive operations outside north america delivered a full year profit of $421 million, $198 million higher than in 2015. 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive segment pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below, with net pricing and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average contribution margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, special lease offers, and stock adjustments on dealer inventory contribution costs primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs structural costs primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing, including volume related consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), and new product launch expense. these costs could be affected by volume for operating pattern actions such as overtime, line-speed, and shift schedules engineering consists primarily of costs for engineering personnel, prototype materials, testing, and outside engineering services spending-related consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging other includes a variety of items, such as parts and services profits, royalties, government incentives and compensation-related changes in addition, definitions and calculations used in this report include: wholesales and revenue wholesale unit volumes include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our china joint venture, jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ), that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue automotive segment operating margin defined as automotive segment pre-tax profit divided by automotive segment revenue industry volume and market share based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy duty trucks 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) a utomotive cash includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities references to automotive records for operating cash flow, operating margin, and business units are since at least 2000. the charts on the following pages detail full year 2016 key metrics and the change in full year 2016 pre-tax results compared with full year 2015 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its business units north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific. shown above are the key financial metrics for our automotive segment for full year 2016. wholesales and revenue were about the same as a year ago with all other metrics down, consistent with our expectations for the year. global industry volume, estimated at 91.4 million units, was up 3.2 million units or 4%. the increase was driven by industry gains in asia pacific, europe, and north america. global market share was down one-tenth of a percentage point driven by lower market share in north america and south america. market share was flat in europe and higher in middle east &amp; africa and asia pacific. our automotive operating margin was 6.7% and pre-tax profit was $9.4 billion. both metrics were the second-best for a full year and only slightly lower than our record performance in 2015. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown above are the factors that contributed to the $146 million decline in full year automotive segment pre-tax profit. the lower profit was more than explained by higher warranty costs, including about $600 million for the door latch recall we announced in the third quarter of 2016. market factors were favorable, driven by strong mix in all regions except south america. this more than offset unfavorable dealer stock changes which reflected stock reductions this year compared to increases in 2015 in north america, europe, and asia pacific. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america generated a full year pre-tax profit of $9 billion with an operating margin of 9.7%. north america industry, at 21.8 million units, was up 300,000 units, reflecting increases in mexico, united states, and canada. u.s. industry, at 17.9 million units, was up 100,000 units. our north america market share was down one-tenth of a percentage point, with u.s. share down by one-tenth of a point to 14.6%. the decrease was driven by lower retail sales, mainly cars. f-series retail share was a partial offset, improving two-tenths from a year ago. included in north america's profit is about $600 million for the door latch recall we announced in the third quarter, which negatively impacted north america's operating margin by six-tenths of a percentage point. 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america's full year pre-tax profit was $344 million lower than a year ago driven by unfavorable stock changes and higher recall costs. the unfavorable stock changes reflect decreases in dealer stock this year compared to increases a year ago when we were building f-150 stock after the kansas city plant launch. it also reflects actions to align production to demand for several vehicles. the higher product costs reflect primarily the impact of our first major refresh of the super duty. the non-repeat of last year's one-time ratification bonus related to the uaw agreement was a partial offset. within the united states, average retail transaction prices were $1,300 per vehicle higher compared to a year ago, more than double the industry average increase. our incentives were up as a percent of revenue, but less than the industry average. for 2017, we expect our north america operating margin and profit to be strong but lower than in 2016, mainly due to unfavorable volume and mix, and increased investments in emerging opportunities. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) all full year key metrics were lower than a year ago, reflecting the difficult external environment. industry volume for the region, at 3.7 million units, was 500,000 units lower than 2015 due to brazil. our market share for the region, at 8.8%, was down eight-tenths of a percentage point, reflecting our continued focus on optimizing more profitable share amid higher industry discounting. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america's full year loss was $277 million greater than in 2015. this was more than explained by the unfavorable effects of high local inflation and weaker local currencies exceeding higher net pricing and favorable cost performance. for 2017, we expect south america's loss to improve as a result of improving market conditions as the economy begins to recover. 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe delivered a record full year profit of $1.2 billion and a record operating margin of 4.2%, both up sharply from a year ago. europe industry volume, at 20.1 million units, was 5% higher than a year ago. europe's market share, at 7.7%, was flat from a year ago. in 2016, ford remained europe's best-selling commercial vehicle brand and improved its share in the commercial vehicle market, reflecting the strength of the transit line and ranger. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe's full year pre-tax profit improved $946 million from a year ago. this was driven by favorable mix, reflecting increasing demand for our higher trim series across all major vehicle lines, and improved cost performance, reflecting our continued focus on material cost reductions. improved results in russia also contributed to europe's favorable year-over-year profit improvement. for 2017, we expect europe to remain profitable, although at levels below 2016 due mainly to a weaker sterling resulting from brexit and higher costs associated with continued investment in the business, including the launch of fiesta and ecosport. net pricing is expected to be a partial offset. we also expect continued improvements from our business in russia. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) middle east &amp; africa's operating margin and pre-tax results were down sharply, reflecting difficult external conditions resulting in lower volume and unfavorable exchange, primarily the south african rand. industry volume for the region, at 3.6 million units, was down 700,000 units from 2015. lower industry volume was the primary driver in the 14% reduction in our wholesale volume. our market share for the region was 4.5%, up one-tenth of a percentage point. for 2017, we expect results in middle east &amp; africa to improve due to lower costs, higher net pricing, and favorable exchange. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2016, asia pacific generated its second-best full year pre-tax profit. wholesale volume increased by 10% while revenue from consolidated operations was up 12%. asia pacific industry was 42.1 million units, up 3.0 million units from 2015, primarily explained by a 2.9 million unit increase in china industry volume, estimated at 26.4 million units. the increase was driven by the government purchase tax incentive for vehicles with engine displacements of 1.6 liters or lower. our asia pacific market share was 3.8%, up two-tenths of a percentage point. the improvement in share was driven by new product introductions, including taurus, edge, lincoln mkx, and lincoln mkz. our china joint ventures contributed $1.4 billion to asia pacific's pre-tax profit, reflecting our equity share of the unconsolidated jvs' after-tax earnings; this was $75 million lower than in 2015. our china joint ventures' net income margin was 14.6%, a reduction of 1 percentage point from 2015. the decline in margin reflects negative industry pricing in china and a higher mix of vehicles with engine displacement of 1.6 liters or lower. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific's full year profit was $627 million, down $138 million from 2015, reflecting lower net pricing, adverse exchange effects (mainly a weaker chinese renminbi), and unfavorable cost performance. lower net pricing compared to a year ago reflects continued negative pricing trends in china. unfavorable cost performance was driven by cost increases to support higher volumes and continued investment for future product and regulatory actions. the investments in structural cost were offset partially by our continued focus on material cost efficiencies. volume and mix were up reflecting higher industry volume in china and improved mix from new product launches. for 2017, we expect asia pacific's profit to improve due to favorable volume and mix. this will be offset, in part, by lower net pricing which will be lower due to continued negative china industry pricing and unfavorable exchange, mainly the chinese renminbi. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services segment in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below: volume and mix: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average managed receivables at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin) at prior period exchange rates. volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding for the purchase of retail installment sale and lease contracts and to provide wholesale financing mix primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by period over period changes in the composition of ford credit's average managed receivables by product and by country or region financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average managed receivables at prior period exchange rates. this calculation is performed at the product and country level and then aggregated. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average managed receivables for the same period financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management credit loss: credit loss is the change in the provision for credit losses at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information on the allowance for credit losses, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section below lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value (which includes both base and accumulated supplemental depreciation) of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term, and changes in the estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold. for additional information on accumulated supplemental depreciation, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section below exchange: reflects changes in pre-tax results driven by the effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, and insurance expenses at prior period exchange rates changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts in general, other revenue changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates) and other miscellaneous items 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's receivables were higher than a year ago, in line with expectations, and while full year pre-tax profit was lower, it remained solid at $1.9 billion. portfolio performance remained robust, despite higher ltrs. origination, servicing, and collection practices remained disciplined and consistent. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's lower full year pre-tax profit is primarily explained by unfavorable lease residual performance and credit losses. favorable volume and mix, driven by growth in consumer and non-consumer finance receivables globally and operating leases in north america, was a partial offset. lease residual performance primarily reflects higher depreciation in north america as we expect lower auction values in the future. credit loss performance primarily reflects higher charge-offs in north america. for 2017, we continue to expect ford credit's full year pre-tax profit to be about $1.5 billion, which is lower compared with 2016 due to the impact of increased accumulated depreciation driven by expected lower residual values for ford credit's lease portfolio in north america. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) over the last several years, we have seen industry lease share grow. as a result, the supply of off-lease vehicles is higher , and will continue to grow for the next several years. the increased supply of used vehicles is resulting in lower auction values , and we expect this trend to continue. ford credit's off-lease vehicle auction performance reflects industry trends. in 2016, ford credit's off-lease auction values were lower than 2015, primarily reflecting higher return volume and lower auction values on smaller vehicles. ford credit's 2016 full year lease share was flat compared with 2015 and remains below the industry, reflecting the parameters of our leasing strategy which focuses on supporting sales, protecting residual values, and managing the trade cycle. industry off-lease volume is expected to continue to grow. ford credit continues to plan for lower auction values. the average placement terms and average fico score have remained stable for several years, reflecting ford credit's disciplined and consistent underwriting practices. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) all other all other is a combination of central treasury operations (formerly other automotive) and ford smart mobility llc, two operating segments that did not meet the quantitative thresholds in this reporting period to qualify as reportable segments. the central treasury operations segment is primarily engaged in decision making for investments, risk management activities, and providing financing for the automotive segment. interest income (excluding interest earned on our extended service contract portfolio that is included in our automotive segment), interest expense, gains and losses on cash equivalents and marketable securities, and foreign exchange derivatives associated with intercompany lending are included in the results of central treasury operations. the underlying assets and liabilities, primarily cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, debt, and derivatives, remain with the automotive segment. ford smart mobility llc is a subsidiary formed to design, build, grow, and invest in emerging mobility services. designed to compete like a start-up company, ford smart mobility llc will design and build mobility services on its own, and collaborate with start-ups and tech companies. in 2016, pre-tax results for all other were a loss of $867 million, a $71 million higher loss compared with a year ago. this increase is more than explained by higher net interest expense, offset partially by lower net losses on cash equivalents and marketable securities. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) special items as detailed in note 4 of the notes to the financial statements, special items are reflected as a separate reconciling item, as opposed to being allocated among the automotive segment, financial services segment, and all other. this reflects the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources. our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows: taxes our provision for income taxes for full year 2016 was $2.2 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of 32.2%. our full year 2016 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 31.9%. 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2015 total company net income attributable to ford. the chart below shows our net income attributable to ford for full year 2015: net income attributable to ford for full year 2015 was $7.4 billion or $1.84 diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock, an increase of $6.1 billion or $1.53 per share compared with 2014. full year 2015 pre-tax results of our automotive segment, financial services segment, all other, special items, and taxes are discussed in the following sections in results of operations. revenue. company revenue for full year 2015 was $149.6 billion, $5.5 billion higher than 2014. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2015 were $134.5 billion, a decrease of $2.3 billion compared with 2014. the detail for the change is shown below (in billions): 2015 lower/(higher) 2014 volume and mix, exchange, and other $ 1.4 contribution costs material excluding commodities (3.7 ) commodities 0.9 warranty, freight, and other 1.4 structural costs (1.8 ) special items 4.1 total $ 2.3 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) equity. at december 31, 2015, total equity attributable to ford was $28.6 billion, an increase of $4.2 billion compared with december 31, 2014. the detail for this change is shown below (in billions): increase/(decrease) net income $ 7.4 dividends (2.4 ) other comprehensive income (1.0 ) compensation-related equity issuances 0.3 treasury stock share repurchases (0.1 ) total $ 4.2 the chart below shows our full year 2015 total company adjusted pre-tax results and pre-tax results of our automotive segment by regional business unit, our financial services segment, and all other, which is mainly net interest expense. we achieved a record company full-year adjusted pre-tax profit of $10.8 billion in 2015. collectively, our operations outside of north america were profitable and every business unit, with the exception of south america, was profitable in 2015. in europe, we earned $259 million, reflecting the progress of our transformation plan announced in 2012. asia pacific had its best-ever annual profit. north america and ford credit continued to deliver benchmark profitability. and as shown below the chart, all business units improved compared with 2014. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment the charts on the following pages detail 2015 key metrics and the change in 2015 pre-tax results compared with 2014 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its business units north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific. shown above are the key market factors and financial metrics for our automotive segment for full year 2015. our automotive operating margin of 6.8 percent was the highest since at least the 1990s. each of the key metrics improved compared to 2014: wholesale volume was up 5%, automotive revenue was up 4%, or 9% at constant exchange, automotive operating margin was up 2.2 points or nearly 50%, and record full year automotive pre-tax profit, at $9.6 billion, was up 53%. global industry volume, estimated at 88.2 million units, was up 0.1 million units from a year ago. our global market share, at 7.4%, was up three-tenths of a percentage point with gains in south america and europe. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as shown above, our full year automotive segment pre-tax profit improved by $3.3 billion. the improvement was driven by $7.4 billion of favorable market factors, reflecting the success of our new product launches, our asia pacific growth strategy, as well as industry growth in north america and europe. cost increases were mainly product-related costs and manufacturing and engineering expense that supported our growth in 2015, and will support further growth in 2016 and beyond. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america had an outstanding year. we delivered substantial top-line growth, operating margin at 10.2%, and full year pre-tax profit of $9.3 billion up 26%. the north america industry volume improved compared with a year ago; the u.s. industry volume totaled 17.8 million units, up 1 million units. u.s. market share was flat compared to last year. in addition, although not shown above, u.s. retail share increased one-tenth of a percentage point to 13.0% driven by strong demand for our newest products, including f-150 and mustang. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) favorable volume and mix and higher net pricing drove north america's pre-tax profit higher than a year ago. higher costs, including a one-time ratification bonus in other related to the uaw agreement in the fourth quarter, and unfavorable exchange were partial offsets. we achieved our highest annual sales in the united states since 2005. ford remained the best-selling vehicle brand in the united states and ford f-series was the best-selling vehicle in the united states for the 34th straight year. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) wholesale volume, revenue, and operating margin were each lower than a year ago, reflecting the continued deterioration of the business environment in south america. despite the tough conditions, south america's pre-tax loss for the full year was reduced by $332 million, or 29%, compared to a year ago. the south america industry volume, at 4.2 million units, was down 1.1 million units. most of this was in brazil. ford's market share in south america, at 9.6%, was up seven-tenths of a percentage point reflecting our strong performance in brazil with the all-new ka. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the full year pre-tax loss in south america was less severe than a year ago, reflecting higher net pricing and market share, partially offset by lower industry. our team in the region continued to work on all areas of the business to counter the effects of the difficult business environment and position ourselves to be able to recover quickly once conditions begin to improve. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) with the exception of revenue, which was impacted adversely by the strong u.s. dollar, all metrics for the full year were better than a year ago. the europe industry volume was 600,000 units higher compared to a year ago, more than explained by the improvement in the europe 20 markets. our total europe market share in the region was up five-tenths of a percentage point to 7.7%, reflecting the strength of ecosport and mondeo and geographic mix. in 2015, ford became europe's best-selling commercial vehicle brand, reflecting the strength of our renewed transit line-up and ranger as well as our dedicated dealer network support. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in europe, our full year pre-tax profit was $259 million, up over $850 million compared to a year ago. the improvement in europe reflects favorable market factors and improved costs flowing through to the bottom line, partially offset by unfavorable exchange and the consolidation of ford sollers, our joint venture in russia. returning to profitability in 2015 reflected the progress of our transformation plan announced in 2012. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our pre-tax results and operating margin improved from a year ago, reflecting higher net pricing offset by lower volume. wholesale volume and revenue declined compared to a year ago. the industry volume for the region was flat and our market share declined two-tenths of a percentage point due to industry growth in markets in which we do not participate. market share was higher compared to 2014 in the major markets in which we do participate. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in asia pacific, we had our best year yet as we continued to execute our growth strategy. asia pacific achieved record volume, revenue, operating margin, and pre-tax profit in 2015, mainly reflecting the strength of our new products, including the all-new three-row edge, figo, everest, lincoln mkx, taurus, and new ranger. our china joint ventures contributed $1.5 billion to pre-tax profit in 2015, reflecting our equity share of the unconsolidated joint ventures' after-tax earnings; this was $234 million higher than last year. the industry volume for the region was 39.1 million units, down 600,000 units from a year ago, primarily explained by a decrease in the china industry volume. for the full year, both our asia pacific regional market share of 3.6% and our china market share of 4.8% were higher than a year ago. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific delivered an outstanding year with a record pre-tax profit of $765 million, up 29% from a year ago. favorable volume was driven by strong industry in china, where we were able to leverage the government incentive program with our strong line-up of vehicles with 1.6l or smaller engines. higher mix reflected the strength of our new products, highlighted by the performance of the locally produced all-new three-row edge. higher structural cost was a partial offset to the improvement, as we continued to invest for further growth in the region. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services segment ford credit earned a pre-tax profit of $2.1 billion in 2015, up $232 million from 2014, and its receivables were higher than 2014. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's 2015 pre-tax profit improved compared with 2014. the improvement is more than explained by favorable volume and mix, driven by growth in all products globally. higher credit losses and the adverse effect of the stronger u.s. dollar were partial offsets. the higher credit losses, primarily in north america, reflect reserve increases in 2015 compared with reserve releases in 2014. charge-offs were also higher. all other our full year 2015 all other pre-tax results were a loss of $796 million, a $41 million higher loss compared with a year ago. this increase primarily reflects higher net interest expense. 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) special items our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows: taxes our tax provision for full year 2015 was $2.9 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of 28.1%. our full year 2015 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 28.6%. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources automotive segment liquidity . one of our key priorities is to maintain a strong balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our core business and invest in emerging opportunities. based on our planning assumptions, we believe we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products and services that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. our key balance sheet metrics include total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (collectively automotive cash ), automotive liquidity, which includes automotive cash and total available committed credit lines, and cash net of debt. at december 31, 2016, we had $27.5 billion of automotive cash, of which about 89% was held by consolidated entities domiciled in the united states. we target to have an average ongoing automotive cash balance of about $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to (i) future cash flow expectations, such as for pension contributions, debt maturities, capital investments, investments in emerging opportunities, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. our automotive cash investments primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated a-1/p-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments is approximately one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our automotive cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition to our target automotive cash balance, we also target to maintain a corporate credit facility for our automotive business of about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. our corporate credit facility is discussed below. we assess the appropriate long-term target for total automotive liquidity, comprised of automotive cash and the corporate credit facility, to be about $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. at december 31, 2016, we had $38.3 billion of automotive liquidity. our automotive cash and automotive liquidity targets could be reduced over time based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. changes in automotive cash. changes in automotive segment cash are summarized below (in billions): in managing our automotive business, we classify changes in automotive cash into operating and other items. operating items include: automotive segment pre-tax profits, capital spending, depreciation and tooling amortization, changes in working capital, and all other and timing differences. non-operating items include: separation payments, transactions with other segments, acquisitions and divestitures, changes in automotive debt, contributions to funded pension plans, and dividends paid to shareholders. automotive operating cash flow was $6.4 billion in 2016, more than explained by automotive segment pre-tax profits. automotive total cash flow of $3.9 billion in 2016 includes $2.8 billion in proceeds from our unsecured debt issuance in the united states. capital spending was $6.9 billion in 2016, and is projected to be about $7 billion in 2017. based on expected cash flows and the identification of additional opportunities for profitable growth, the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, restructuring, and infrastructure is expected to be between $8 billion and $9 billion per year through 2020. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive segment trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs at the time the vehicles are gate-released shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. available credit lines . total committed automotive credit lines at december 31, 2016 were $11.9 billion, consisting of $10.4 billion of our corporate credit facility and $1.5 billion of local credit facilities available to non-u.s. automotive affiliates. at december 31, 2016, the amount available under the corporate credit facility was about $10.4 billion with about $35 million utilized for letters of credit. at december 31, 2016, the amount available under local credit facilities was about $500 million with about $1 billion utilized. lenders under our corporate credit facility have commitments to us totaling $13.4 billion, with 75% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2021 and 25% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2019. we have allocated $3 billion of commitments to ford credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its growth and liquidity. any borrowings by ford credit under the corporate credit facility would be guaranteed by us. the corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p (each as defined under credit ratings below), the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. debt. total automotive debt at december 31, 2016 was $15.9 billion, which is about $3.1 billion higher than at december 31, 2015. the increase primarily reflects our unsecured debt issuance in the united states, local funding in international markets and foreign currency exchange, offset partially by debt repayments, including repayments to the u.s. department of energy. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program . see note 14 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding the atvm loan. leverage. we manage automotive debt levels with a leverage framework to maintain strong, investment grade credit ratings through a normal business cycle. the leverage framework includes a ratio of automotive debt, underfunded pension liabilities, operating leases, and other adjustments, divided by automotive income before income tax, adjusted for depreciation, amortization, interest expense on automotive debt, and other adjustments. ford credit's leverage is calculated as a separate business as described in the liquidity - financial services section of item 7. ford credit is self-funding and its debt, which is used to fund its operations, is separate from our automotive debt. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services segment ford credit funding overview. ford credit's primary funding and liquidity objective is to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet with ample liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit's liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. ford credit annually stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it continues to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). ford credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states and other international markets. at december 31, 2016, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $6 billion. at december 31, 2016, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was $4.5 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations. funding portfolio. the chart below shows the trends in funding for ford credit's managed receivables: managed receivables of $137 billion at the end of 2016 were funded primarily with term debt and term asset-backed securities. securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables was 37%. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit expects the mix of securitized funding to trend lower over time. the calendarization of the funding plan may result in quarterly fluctuations of the securitized funding percentage. public term funding plan. the chart below shows ford credit's issuances for full-year 2014, 2015, and 2016, and its planned issuances for full-year 2017, excluding short-term funding programs: in 2016, ford credit completed $28 billion of public term funding. for 2017, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $24 billion to $30 billion. through february 8, 2017, ford credit has completed over $5 billion of public term issuances. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the chart below shows ford credit's liquidity sources and utilization: ford credit's liquidity available for use will fluctuate quarterly based on factors including near-term debt maturities, receivable growth, and timing of funding transactions. ford credit targets liquidity of at least $25 billion. at december 31, 2016, ford credit's liquidity available for use was $27 billion, $3.5 billion higher than year-end 2015. ford credit's sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset-backed facilities, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate credit facility allocation. ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. ford credit ensures its cumulative debt maturities have a longer tenor than its cumulative asset maturities. this positive maturity profile is intended to provide ford credit with additional liquidity after all of its assets have been funded. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. the chart below shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage and managed leverage: ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding amounts related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates . ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2016, ford credit's financial statement leverage was 9.9:1, and managed leverage was 9.2:1. ford credit targets managed leverage in the range of 8:1 to 9:1. managed leverage is above the targeted range reflecting growth in receivables and the continued impact of a strong u.s. dollar, but it continues to trend toward the target range. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total company pension plan contributions and strategy. our strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. the key elements of this strategy include: limiting liability growth in our defined benefit plans by closing participation to new participants; reducing plan deficits through discretionary cash contributions; progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and taking other strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities. worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $8.9 billion at december 31, 2016, a deterioration of $700 million from december 31, 2015, due to lower discount rates partially offset by asset returns and contributions. of the $8.9 billion underfunded status at year-end 2016, $5.9 billion, or about 66%, is associated with our unfunded plans. the u.s. weighted-average discount rate decreased 24 basis points to 4.03% at year-end 2016 from 4.27% at year-end 2015. the non-u.s. weighted average discount rate decreased 76 basis points to 2.44% at year-end 2016 from 3.20% at year-end 2015. asset returns in 2016 for our u.s. plans were 8.6% reflecting fixed income gains as interest rates fell. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2016 was 75%, two percentage points lower than year-end 2015. asset returns for our non-u.s. plans were 14%, reflecting fixed income gains and favorable exchange. the fixed income mix in our non-u.s. plans at year-end 2016 was 76%, two percentage points higher than year-end 2015. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2016, consistent with our plan, we contributed $1.2 billion to our global funded pension plans (most of which were mandatory contributions), an increase of $100 million compared with 2015. during 2017, we expect to contribute $1 billion from automotive cash to our global funded pension plans (most of which are mandatory contributions). we also expect to make about $300 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of $1.3 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. plans in 2017. after 2017, we expect contributions to our global funded plans of about $1 billion per year, limited to ongoing service cost. while full funding and de-risking will be dependent on many factors, including future global interest rates, based on our present assumptions we expect our global funded pension plans will be fully funded in 2018. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. return on invested capital. we analyze total company performance using a return on invested capital ( roic ) financial metric based on an after-tax rolling five-year average basis, which we believe is appropriate given our industry's product and investment cycles. the following table contains the calculation of our roic for the years shown: 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit ratings our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ( dbrs ); fitch, inc. ( fitch ); moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of mcgraw hill financial ( s&amp;p ). in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. in the first half of 2016, ford and ford credit received rating upgrades from each of these nrsros. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb bbb stable bbb r-2m stable bbb (low) fitch bbb bbb stable bbb f2 stable bbb- moody's n/a baa2 stable baa2 p-2 stable baa3 s&amp;p bbb bbb stable bbb a-2 stable bbb- 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2017 industry and gdp planning assumptions based on the current environment, our industry and gdp planning assumptions for 2017 include the following: overall, we expect growth in gdp globally and in all major markets shown above. similarly, we expect growth in industry volume globally and in all major markets shown above, except the united states. industry volume in the united states is expected to decline but remain strong. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) production volumes our full year 2016 production volumes and first quarter 2017 forecast production volumes for our automotive business units are as follows (in thousands): 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook 2017 company guidance based on the current economic environment, our company guidance for 2017 includes the following: after a strong 2016, we expect to deliver another good year in 2017. the total company outlook shown above is in line with expectations set out at our investor day in september 2016. we are making substantial progress on expanding our business, from a strong, healthy automotive company to one that will be even stronger and bigger as we become an auto and mobility company in the future. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our 2017 outlook by business unit is as follows: we expect profits in north america and europe to be lower than 2016, while we expect to see improvements in results in south america, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific. results for ford credit and all other are expected to be lower than 2016. 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to financial crisis, recession, geopolitical events, or other factors; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of ford's new or existing products or services, or failure to achieve expected growth; market shift away from sales of larger, more profitable vehicles beyond ford's current planning assumption, particularly in the united states; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; adverse effects resulting from economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other limitations on production (whether as a result of labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, tight credit markets or other financial distress, production constraints or difficulties, or other factors); single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on ford's ability to maintain competitive cost structure; substantial pension and other postretirement liabilities impairing liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law ownership change; the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulations resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; adverse effects on results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; cybersecurity risks to operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure owned by ford, ford credit, or a third-party vendor or supplier; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit and liquidity facilities; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) non-gaap financial measure reconciliations the following charts show our non-gaap financial measure reconciliations for: adjusted pre-tax profit, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate, and ford credit managed receivables. the gaap reconciliation for ford credit managed leverage can be found in the financial services segment section of liquidity and capital resources. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 83 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2016 supplemental financial information the tables below provide supplemental consolidating financial information. the data is presented by our reportable segments, automotive and financial services. all other, special items, and adjustments include our operating segments that did not meet the quantitative threshold to qualify as a reportable segment, special items (which primarily consists of our pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses), eliminations of intersegment transactions, and deferred tax netting. selected income statement information. the following table provides supplemental income statement information, by segment (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2016 automotive financial services all other, special items, &amp; adjustments consolidated revenues $ 141,546 $ 10,253 $ 1 $ 151,800 total costs and expenses 135,158 8,904 3,622 147,684 interest expense on automotive debt 894 894 other income/(loss), net 1,287 438 69 1,794 equity in net income of affiliated companies 1,747 33 1,780 income/(loss) before income taxes 9,422 1,820 (4,446 ) 6,796 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 3,109 505 (1,425 ) 2,189 net income/(loss) $ 6,313 $ 1,315 $ (3,021 ) $ 4,607 84 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected balance sheet information. the following tables provide supplemental balance sheet information, by segment (in millions): december 31, 2016 assets automotive financial services all other, special items, &amp; adjustments consolidated cash and cash equivalents $ 7,820 $ 8,077 $ 8 $ 15,905 marketable securities 19,642 3,280 22,922 financial services finance receivables, net 46,266 46,266 trade and other receivables, less allowances 4,457 6,645 11,102 inventories 8,898 8,898 other assets 2,328 1,040 3,368 receivable from other segments 7 784 (791 ) total current assets 43,152 66,092 (783 ) 108,461 financial services finance receivables, net 49,924 49,924 net investment in operating leases 1,620 27,209 28,829 net property 31,916 156 32,072 equity in net assets of affiliated companies 3,136 153 15 3,304 deferred income taxes 13,112 206 (3,613 ) 9,705 other assets 3,993 1,617 46 5,656 receivable from other segments 895 (895 ) total assets $ 96,929 $ 146,252 $ (5,230 ) $ 237,951 liabilities payables $ 20,239 $ 1,057 $ $ 21,296 other liabilities and deferred revenue 18,193 1,120 3 19,316 automotive debt payable within one year 2,685 2,685 financial services debt payable within one year 46,984 46,984 payable to other segments 784 (784 ) total current liabilities 41,901 49,161 (781 ) 90,281 other liabilities and deferred revenue 23,414 972 9 24,395 automotive long-term debt 13,222 13,222 financial services long-term debt 80,079 80,079 deferred income taxes 199 4,105 (3,613 ) 691 payable to other segments 895 (895 ) total liabilities $ 79,631 $ 134,317 $ (5,280 ) $ 208,668 85 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected cash flow information. the following tables provide supplemental cash flow information, by segment (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2016 cash flows from operating activities automotive financial services all other, special items, &amp; adjustments consolidated net income $ 6,313 $ 1,315 $ (3,021 ) $ 4,607 depreciation and tooling amortization 4,667 4,356 9,023 other amortization 175 (481 ) (306 ) provision for credit and insurance losses 672 672 pension and opeb expense 2,667 2,667 equity investment (earnings)/losses in excess of dividends received (148 ) (30 ) (178 ) foreign currency adjustments 297 (14 ) 283 net (gain)/loss on changes in investments in affiliates (139 ) (139 ) stock compensation 200 10 210 net change in wholesale and other receivables (1,449 ) (1,449 ) provision for deferred income taxes 634 844 1,478 decrease/(increase) in intersegment receivables/payables 540 (543 ) 3 decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable and other assets (2,516 ) (339 ) (2,855 ) decrease/(increase) in inventory (815 ) (815 ) increase/(decrease) in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities 6,176 414 5 6,595 other (2,934 ) (73 ) 3,006 (1 ) interest supplements and residual value support to financial services (4,072 ) 4,072 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 11,045 $ 8,754 $ (7 ) $ 19,792 reconciling adjustments to automotive segment operating cash flows* automotive capital spending (6,947 ) net cash flows from non-designated derivatives 610 funded pension contributions 1,155 separation payments 336 other 186 automotive segment operating cash flows $ 6,385 _________ * we measure and evaluate our automotive segment operating cash flow on a different basis than net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. automotive segment operating cash flow includes additional elements management considers to be related to our automotive operating activities, primarily capital spending and non-designated derivatives, and excludes outflows for funded pension contributions, separation payments, and other items that are considered operating cash flows under u.s. gaap. the table above quantifies the reconciling adjustments to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities for the period ended december 31, 2016. 86 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) for the year ended december 31, 2016 cash flows from investing activities automotive financial services all other, special items, &amp; adjustments consolidated capital spending $ (6,947 ) $ (45 ) $ $ (6,992 ) acquisitions of finance receivables and operating leases (56,007 ) (56,007 ) collections of finance receivables and operating leases 38,834 38,834 purchases of equity and debt securities (24,133 ) (7,289 ) (6 ) (31,428 ) sales and maturities of equity and debt securities 22,598 6,756 29,354 settlements of derivatives 610 215 825 other 171 (60 ) (49 ) 62 investing activity (to)/from other segments 80 (80 ) net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities $ (7,621 ) $ (17,596 ) $ (135 ) $ (25,352 ) cash flows from financing activities cash dividends $ (3,376 ) $ $ $ (3,376 ) purchases of common stock (145 ) (145 ) net changes in short-term debt 404 3,460 3,864 proceeds from issuance of other debt 3,153 42,808 45,961 principal payments on other debt (1,053 ) (37,744 ) (38,797 ) other 53 (102 ) (49 ) financing activity to/(from) other segments (150 ) 150 net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities $ (964 ) $ 8,272 $ 150 $ 7,458 effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents $ (26 ) $ (239 ) $ $ (265 ) 87 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and field service actions nature of estimates required. we provide warranties on the products we sell. separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. we accrue the estimated cost of both basic warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. assumptions and approach used. we establish estimates for warranty and field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty and field service obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on this data, we revise our estimates as necessary. warranty coverages vary; therefore, our warranty accruals vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale for specific periods of time and/or mileage. field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the basic warranty coverage period. our best estimate of the obligation related to field service actions includes expected future payments. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 24 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve to determine the year-end obligations. beginning in 2016, we changed the approach used to estimate the service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and opeb for plans that utilize a yield curve approach. with this refinement, we measure service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows for each component. we believe this approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs. this refinement has no effect on the measurement of our plan obligations or on full year pension and opeb expense as lower service and interest costs recorded quarterly are offset in the fourth quarter remeasurement. we have accounted for this as a change in accounting estimate and accordingly, have accounted for it on a prospective basis. 88 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return considers various sources, primarily inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by plan. historical returns also are considered where appropriate. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. assumptions are set at each year-end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2016 weighted average discount rate was 4.03% for u.s. plans and 2.44% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting decreases of 24 and 76 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2015. in 2016, the u.s. actual return on assets was 8.6%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.75%. non-u.s. actual return on assets was 14%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 5.56%. in total, these differences, in addition to demographic and other updates, resulted in a net loss of $2.8 billion which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. for 2017, the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.75% for u.s. plans unchanged from 2016, and 5.19% for non-u.s. plans, down 37 basis points compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting lower consensus on capital market return expectations from advisors. de-risking strategy . we employ a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. as we de-risk our plans and increase the allocation to fixed income investments over time, we expect the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will be significantly reduced. changes in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. 89 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2016 pension funded status and 2017 expense are affected by year-end 2016 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our obligations and fixed income assets. the table below estimates the impact on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point december 31, 2016 funded status factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $4,700/$(5,700) $4,500/$(5,900) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (4,100)/5,000 (2,700)/3,500 net impact on funded status $600/$(700) $1,800/$(2,400) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., changes in credit spreads, bond coupon and active management excess returns), and growth asset returns. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. interest rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year-end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the table below estimates the impact on pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point 2016 expense factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 bps. $30/$(30) $10/$(10) expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 25 (100)/100 (60)/60 the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for worldwide opeb plans at december 31, 2015 was 4.23%, compared with 4% at december 31, 2016, resulting in a worldwide loss of about $200 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. sensitivity analysis. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our opeb obligation and expense. the table below estimates the impact on 2017 pension expense of higher/lower assumptions for these factors (in millions): worldwide opeb basis (increase)/decrease 2016 ye obligation increase/(decrease) 2017 expense point factor change discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $600/$(800) n/a interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 n/a $5/$(5) income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. 90 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $909 million is required, primarily related to deferred tax assets in various non-u.s. operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $9 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets, and concluded that no valuation allowance is required. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses represents ford credit ' estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date. the adequacy of ford credit's allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 8 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables and on operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. the models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit ' present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. therefore, ford credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit's allowance for credit losses is based on assumptions regarding: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period, measured as repossessions; repossession ratio reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time divided by the average number of contracts outstanding; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle. collective allowance for credit losses. the collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to- receivables ( ltr ) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. the ltr model is based on the most recent years of history. each ltr is calculated by dividing credit losses by average finance receivables or average operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and allowance for credit losses. an average ltr is calculated for each product and multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product. 91 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. the loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail or lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to ford credit's active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred. the loss emergence period ( lep ) is an assumption within ford credit's models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. this time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. it is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. the lep is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. for accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. specific allowance for impaired receivables . consumer receivables involved in troubled debt restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the contract's original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln brand retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): assumption change increase/(decrease) frequency - repossession ratio +/- 0.1 pct. pt. $49/$(49) loss severity per unit +/- 1.0% 5/(5) non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical ltr ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral. collective allowance for credit losses. ford credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using a ltr model for each financing product based on historical experience. this ltr is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables ltr approach. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. specific allowance for impaired receivables. dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). the loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the financial services interest, operating, and other expenses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within financial services finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet. 92 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln brand operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions, except for percentages): assumption percentage change increase/(decrease) future auction values +/- 1.0 $(120)/$120 return volumes +/- 1.0 15/(15) the impact of the change in assumptions on future auction values and return volumes would increase or decrease accumulated supplemental depreciation and depreciation expense over the remaining terms of the operating leases. adjustments to the amount of accumulated supplemental depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in financial services interest, operating, and other expenses. 93 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accounting standards issued but not yet adopted the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has issued the following standards, which are not expected to have a material impact (with the exception of standards 2016-02, 2016-09, and 2016-13) to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures: standard effective date (a) 2017-03 accounting changes and error corrections and investments - equity method and joint ventures january 1, 2017 2016-17 consolidation - interests held through related parties that are under common control january 1, 2017 2016-09 stock compensation - improvements to employee share-based payment accounting january 1, 2017 (b) 2016-07 equity method and joint ventures - simplifying the transition to the equity method of accounting january 1, 2017 2016-06 derivatives and hedging - contingent put and call options in debt instruments january 1, 2017 2016-05 derivatives and hedging - effect of derivative contract novations on existing hedge accounting relationships january 1, 2017 2017-01 business combinations - clarifying the definition of a business january 1, 2018 2016-18 statement of cash flows - restricted cash january 1, 2018 2016-16 income taxes - intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory january 1, 2018 2016-15 statement of cash flows - classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments january 1, 2018 2016-04 extinguishments of liabilities - recognition of breakage for certain prepaid stored-value products january 1, 2018 2016-01 financial instruments - recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities january 1, 2018 2014-09 revenue - revenue from contracts with customers january 1, 2018 (b) (c) 2016-02 leases january 1, 2019 (b) 2017-04 goodwill and other - simplifying the test for goodwill impairment january 1, 2020 2016-13 credit losses - measurement of credit losses on financial instruments january 1, 2020 (b) __________ (a) early adoption for each of the standards, except standard 2016-01, is permitted. (b) for additional information, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. (c) the fasb has issued the following updates to the revenue from contracts with customers standard: accounting standard update ( asu ) 2015-14 (deferral of the effective date), asu 2016-08 (principal versus agent considerations (reporting revenue gross versus net)), asu 2016-10 (identifying performance obligations and licensing), and asu 2016-12 (narrow-scope improvements and practical expedients). we will adopt the new revenue guidance effective january 1, 2017. 94 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services segment. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2016 (in millions): payments due by period 2017 2018 - 2019 2020 - 2021 2022 and thereafter total non-financial services on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) $ 1,389 $ 2,241 $ 1,682 $ 9,573 $ 14,885 interest payments relating to long-term debt 738 1,276 1,154 8,321 11,489 capital leases (b) 32 103 17 8 160 pension funding (c) 511 663 344 1,518 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,535 1,387 761 527 4,210 operating leases 335 467 219 332 1,353 total non-financial services 4,540 6,137 4,177 18,761 33,615 financial services on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) 31,655 45,363 23,485 11,176 111,679 interest payments relating to long-term debt 2,543 3,394 1,730 1,176 8,843 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 13 9 2 24 operating leases 7 10 6 8 31 total financial services 34,218 48,776 25,223 12,360 120,577 total company $ 38,758 $ 54,913 $ 29,400 $ 31,121 $ 154,192 __________ (a) excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments. (b) includes interest payments of $9 million. (c) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. and ford-werke plans. see note 13 for further information regarding our expected 2017 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2016 of $1.6 billion (see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 7 , 13 , and 14 , respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 95 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services segments differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services segments are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive segment and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market risk our automotive segment frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive segment and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk), as of december 31, 2015, was an asset of $322 million compared with an asset of $528 million as of december 31, 2016. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been $2.2 billion at december 31, 2015, compared with $2.7 billion at december 31, 2016. the sensitivity analysis 96 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies. in reality, foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts). the net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2015 was a liability of $24 million compared with an asset of $5 million as of december 31, 2016. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be $62 million at december 31, 2015, compared with $54 million at december 31, 2016. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive segment investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2015, we had $23.6 billion in our automotive segment investment portfolios, compared to $27.5 billion at december 31, 2016. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $186 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2015. this compares to $243 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2016. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities and market-based credit default swap ( cds ) spreads . the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer-dated exposures . our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings. 97 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk market risk for ford credit is the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value. interest rate risk . generally, ford credit's assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured debt and securitization debt. ford credit's unsecured term debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a parallel shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. pre-tax cash flow sensitivity at december 31 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity 2015 2016 one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates $ 7 $ 21 one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (a) (7 ) (21 ) _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. 98 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros, pound sterling, and renminbi. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure, relating to changes in currency exchange rates at december 31, 2016, is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments at december 31, 2015 was an asset of $681 million, compared to an asset of $743 million at december 31, 2016.risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions. we have announced fitness redesign plans to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability. if these fitness actions are not successful, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability . if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow . for a discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of mobility and electrification depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of autonomous vehicles and mobility services. rapid changes to our industry, including the introduction of new types of competitors who may possess technological innovations, increase the significance that we are able to anticipate, develop, and deliver products and services that customers desire. ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and suvs) at levels beyond our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2017 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 35 million units in 2017, an increase of about 4 million units from the prior year. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. changes in commodity prices, currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility. as a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. concerns persist regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual european currency area ( euro area ) countries. these concerns have been exacerbated by brexit. we have a sterling revenue exposure and a euro cost exposure; a sustained weakening of sterling against euro may have an adverse effect on our profitability. further, the united kingdom may be at risk of losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, which may result in increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports that could have an adverse effect on our profitability. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors. a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford's or its suppliers' facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and therefore cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). such single-source suppliers also could threaten to disrupt our production as leverage in negotiations. a significant disruption to our production schedule could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed . the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers. the cost to complete a recall or customer satisfaction action could be exacerbated to the extent such action relates to a global platform. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance . safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations affecting ford may become more stringent. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles increase sharply to approximately 50 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles through the 2025 model year; even more burdensome regulations are likely to follow. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. we are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more electrified vehicles with lower ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the u.s. government has pursued an enforcement action against a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light duty diesel vehicles, collecting billions of dollars for environmental remediation projects and civil penalties. several of the competitor's employees have been indicted on charges of committing federal crimes. the competitor also faces various class action suits, as well as numerous claims and investigations by various u.s. states and other nations. the emergence of this issue has led to increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world , which in turn has triggered investigations of other manufacturers. these events have led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. for more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by suppliers, to process, transmit , and store electronic information that is important to the operation of our business and our vehicles. despite security measures, we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise the privacy of personal information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; affect the performance of in-vehicle systems; and/or impact the safety of our vehicles. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. we have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and such attacks are likely to occur in the future. the techniques used for attacks by third parties change frequently and may become more sophisticated, which may cause cyber incidents to be difficult to detect for long periods of time. our networks and in-vehicle systems may also be affected by computer viruses or breaches due to the negligence or misconduct of employees, contractors , and/or others who have access to our networks and systems. a significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation, and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, marketing programs, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be influenced by these factors, as well as by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. ford credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we have approximately 57,000 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just under five years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity 3 item 1. business (continued) and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions. we provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 23 of the notes to the financial statements. wholesales wholesales consist primarily of vehicles sold to dealerships. for the majority of such sales, we recognize revenue when we ship the vehicles to our customers (i.e., the dealerships) from our manufacturing facilities. see the overview section in item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices. wholesales in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: wholesales (a) (in thousands of units) 2015 2016 2017 united states 2,677 2,588 2,566 canada 285 313 308 mexico 93 103 82 north america 3,073 3,019 2,967 brazil 250 182 215 argentina 94 101 115 south america 381 325 373 united kingdom 447 428 418 germany 261 283 277 russia 38 45 54 turkey 128 116 116 europe 1,530 1,539 1,582 middle east &amp; africa 187 161 119 china 1,160 1,267 1,215 australia 71 82 78 india 78 86 88 asean (b) 80 106 122 asia pacific (c) 1,464 1,607 1,566 total company 6,635 6,651 6,607 _______ (a) wholesale unit volume includes sales of medium and heavy trucks. wholesale unit volume includes all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volume. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volume (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. (b) asean includes philippines, thailand, and vietnam. (c) asia pacific market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. 4 item 1. business (continued) retail sales, industry volume, and market share retail sales, industry volume, and market share in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: retail sales (a) industry volume (b) market share (c) (in millions of units) (in millions of units) (as a percentage) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 united states 2.6 2.6 2.6 17.8 17.9 17.5 14.7 % 14.6 % 14.8 % canada 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.9 2.0 2.1 14.4 15.4 14.9 mexico 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.6 1.6 6.4 6.2 5.3 north america 3.0 3.0 3.0 21.5 21.8 21.5 14.0 13.9 13.9 brazil 0.3 0.2 0.2 2.6 2.1 2.2 10.4 % 9.2 % 9.6 % argentina 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.7 0.9 14.9 13.6 12.8 south america 0.4 0.3 0.4 4.2 3.7 4.2 9.6 8.8 8.9 united kingdom 0.4 0.4 0.4 3.1 3.1 3.0 14.3 % 14.0 % 13.8 % germany 0.3 0.3 0.3 3.5 3.7 3.8 7.3 7.6 7.7 russia 0.0 0.0 0.1 1.6 1.5 1.6 2.4 2.9 3.1 turkey 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 12.6 11.4 11.9 europe 1.5 1.5 1.6 19.2 20.1 20.9 7.7 7.7 7.5 middle east &amp; africa 0.2 0.2 0.1 4.3 3.7 3.6 4.4 % 4.5 % 3.9 % china 1.1 1.3 1.2 23.8 27.5 28.2 4.7 % 4.6 % 4.2 % australia 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 6.1 6.9 6.6 india 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.5 3.7 4.0 2.1 2.4 2.2 asean (d) 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.5 1.6 6.0 7.0 7.6 asia pacific (e) 1.4 1.6 1.5 39.5 43.4 44.8 3.6 3.7 3.4 global n/a n/a n/a 88.7 92.7 94.9 7.3 % 7.2 % 7.0 % total company 6.5 6.7 6.6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a ______________ (a) retail sales represents primarily sales by dealers and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) industry volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe; includes medium and heavy trucks. (c) market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry volume in the relevant market or region. (d) asean includes philippines, thailand, and vietnam. (e) asia pacific market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. u.s. sales by type the following table shows 2017 u.s. retail sales volume and u.s. wholesales segregated by truck, suv, and car sales. u.s. retail sales volume reflects transactions with (i) retail and fleet customers (as reported by dealers), (ii) government, and (iii) ford management. u.s. wholesales reflect sales to dealers. u.s. retail sales u.s. wholesales trucks 1,123,416 1,114,304 suvs 867,909 869,725 cars 595,390 581,754 total vehicles 2,586,715 2,565,783 5 item 1. business (continued) financial services segment ford motor credit company llc our wholly-owned subsidiary ford credit offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases for new vehicles to retail and commercial customers, including leasing companies, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. ford credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing, as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit also provides financing to us for vehicles that we lease to our employees. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operations are managed primarily through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany, representing 59% of fce's finance receivables and operating leases at year-end 2017 . the following table shows ford credit's financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicle retail sales in the united states and new ford vehicles sold in europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe: years ended december 31, 2015 2016 2017 united states - financing share retail installment and lease share of ford retail sales (excl. fleet) 65 % 56 % 55 % wholesale 76 76 76 europe - financing share (incl. fleet) retail installment and lease share of total ford sales 37 % 37 % 37 % wholesale 98 98 98 see item 7 and notes 10 , 11 , and 13 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. we have an amended and restated relationship agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5:1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5:1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. the agreement also allocates to ford credit $3 billion of commitments under our corporate credit facility. in a separate agreement with fce, ford credit has agreed to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million. no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. 6 item 1. business (continued) governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements federal and california emission standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. pursuant to the clean air act, california may establish its own vehicle emission standards, which can then be adopted by other states. both the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) and the california air resources board ( carb ) have established tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards for light and medium duty vehicles that become increasingly stringent through the 2025 model year. thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards. compliance with both the federal and california standards could be challenging. both federal and california regulations require motor vehicles to be equipped with on-board diagnostic ( obd ) systems that monitor emission-related systems and components. as obd requirements become more complex and challenging over time, they could lead to increased vehicle recalls and warranty costs. compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. fuel variables that can affect vehicle emissions include ethanol content, octane ratings, and the use of metallic-based fuel additives, among other things. legislative, regulatory, and judicial developments related to fuel quality at both the national and state levels could affect vehicle manufacturers' warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards. the california vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ). the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles through the 2025 model year. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with zev rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volume of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, especially if gasoline prices remain relatively low . we also are concerned about enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new stage 6 emission standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in september 2014, and a second phase introduced a new laboratory test cycle for co 2 and emissions in september 2017. these standards drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which adds cost to, and potentially impacts, the diesel co 2 advantage. the mandatory real driving emission ( rde ) rules require manufacturers to conduct on-road emission tests using portable emission analyzers. these on-road emission tests complement the laboratory-based tests. in september 2017, manufacturers began to reduce the divergence between the regulatory limit that is tested in laboratory conditions and the values of rde tests ( conformity factors ). the costs associated with conducting the rde tests and complying with the conformity factors are significant. a second step for rdes to further reduce the conformity factors becomes mandatory for new vehicle type approvals by authorities starting in january 2020. europe is in the process of finalizing the rde in-use surveillance rules with proposals to allow third parties to conduct testing and to define a process to challenge the product compliance with authorities. the wvta (whole vehicle type approval) regulations are being adapted to cover increased market surveillance, and the eu commission announced that in 2018 it will begin to discuss air quality modeling scenarios for the next steps of emission standards post stage 6. there is an increasing trend of city access restrictions for internal combustion engine powered vehicles, in particular in european cities that do not meet air quality limits. depending on city and country, the conditions for access will vary (e.g., different emission limits or vehicle requirements), which indirectly impact residual values and sales of internal combustion powered vehicles prior to restrictions being agreed. there might also be a need to retrofit emission after-treatment of vehicles. there are also discussions in several european countries to ban the registration of internal combustion powered vehicles in the future. 7 item 1. business (continued) other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emission regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, in december 2016, the china ministry of environmental protection ( mep ) finalized emission regulations based on european stage vi emission standards for light duty vehicles and u.s. evaporative emissions and obd requirements. the china stage vi standards incorporate two levels of stringency. stage one is slated for implementation by july 1, 2020, and the more stringent stage two level is slated for implementation by july 1, 2023. in 2018, the mep will continue to focus on the development of detailed test procedures for rde and obd. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. although these countries have adopted regulations based on un-ece or u.s. standards, there may be some unique testing provisions that require emission-control systems to be redesigned for these markets. canadian criteria emissions regulations are largely aligned with u.s. requirements. in october 2016, the canadian province of quebec passed legislation enabling regulation of a zev mandate. final regulations were published in december 2017, and came into effect in january 2018. quebec's final regulations are more stringent than those in place in california and the other u.s. zev mandate states. not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emission standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if obd or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. brazil and chile have introduced stringent emission and obd standards based on the european stage 5 standards for light duty vehicles and stage v standards for heavy duty vehicles. in brazil, all light duty vehicles are required to meet u.s.-based proconve l6 standards and more stringent obd standards for diesel light duty vehicles were introduced in 2017. argentina implemented european stage 5 standards for all new light duty vehicles in 2017 and european stage v standards for heavy duty vehicles in 2018. global developments. beginning in september 2015, epa and carb have pursued enforcement actions against a major competitor in connection with its use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light-duty diesel vehicles. these actions have resulted in settlements involving billions of dollars for environmental remediation and civil penalties, as well as indictments of and guilty pleas from several employees on charges of committing federal crimes. the competitor continues to face various class action suits, as well as numerous claims and investigations by various u.s. states and other nations. defeat devices are elements of design (typically embedded in software) that improperly cause the emission control system to function less effectively during normal on-road driving than during an official laboratory emissions test, without justification. they are prohibited by law in many jurisdictions, and we do not use defeat devices in our vehicles. the investigations by epa and carb of our competitor have led to increased scrutiny of automakers' emission testing by regulators around the world. epa began carrying out additional non-standard tests as part of its vehicle certification program, following an announcement in september 2015. the eu accelerated efforts to finalize its rde testing program as described above. in 2016, several european countries, including france and germany, conducted non-standard emission tests and published the results. in some cases, this supplemental testing has triggered investigations of other manufacturers for possible defeat devices. testing is expected to continue on an ongoing basis. in the united states, plaintiffs' attorneys are pursuing consumer class action lawsuits based on alleged excessive emissions from cars and trucks, which could, in turn, prompt further investigations by regulators. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards u.s. requirements light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light duty trucks. 8 item 1. business (continued) epa also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions under the clean air act. because the vast majority of ghgs emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, ghg emission standards effectively are fuel economy standards. thus, it is necessary for nhtsa and epa to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and ghg standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies. in 2010, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations establishing the one national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. these rules require manufacturers to achieve increasingly stringent standards reaching approximately 50 mpg by the 2025 model year. each manufacturer's specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by the epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the existing one national program standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. we are concerned about the commercial feasibility of meeting future model year ghg and cafe standards, particularly the 2022-2025 standards, because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future. the one national program rules provided for a midterm evaluation process under which, by april 2018, epa and nhtsa would re-evaluate their standards for model years 2022-2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. in january 2017, epa announced an accelerated decision to maintain the ghg standards originally set for those model years that decision is currently under reconsideration by epa. nhtsa is continuing to conduct its evaluation with respect to the model year 2022-2025 standards. it is expected that by april 2018 epa and nhtsa will either announce a decision to maintain the existing ghg and fuel economy standards, or commence a rulemaking to set revised standards. if the agencies seek to impose and enforce fuel economy and ghg standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. california has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. with the adoption of the federal one national program standards discussed above, california and the other states have agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with any purported state ghg requirements for the 2012 2025 model years. this avoids a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. should california and other states ever renew their efforts to enforce state-specific motor vehicle ghg rules, this would impose significant costs on automotive manufacturers. u.s. requirements heavy duty vehicles. epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated ghg and fuel economy standards for heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating) through the 2027 model year. in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. as the heavy duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions, with a 2012-2015 phase-in period, that limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ( g/km ), using a sliding scale (the eu target slope) based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different co 2 targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles initially registered in a calendar year. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle technologies ( eco-innovations ), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km for a period of time. a penalty system applies to manufacturers failing to meet the individual co 2 targets. pooling agreements between manufacturers are possible under certain conditions. starting in 2020, an eu industry target of 95 g/km has been set, for which 95% of a manufacturer's fleet has to comply; by 2021, 100% of a manufacturer's fleet has to comply. outside of the eu, switzerland, for example, has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in in july 2012, although the stringency of the industry average emission target is significantly higher in a volatile market. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impacts our average fleet performance. 9 item 1. business (continued) in separate legislation, complementary measures have been mandated, including requirements related to fuel economy indicators, gear shift indicators, tire pressure monitoring systems, low rolling resistance tires, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission introduced in 2011 a co 2 target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an eu industry average of 175 g/km starting in 2014 and 147 g/km starting in 2020 (with a similar 2020 ruling in switzerland). for multi-stage vehicles (e.g., our transit chassis cabs), the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu legislation for light commercial vehicles also includes a penalty system, super-credits for vehicles below 50 g/km (granted between 2014 and 2017), and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. the eu commission has proposed revised rules for the years 2021 to 2024 and 2025/2030 that include a further tightening of co 2 limits for passenger cars and light commercial vans, including expected shares of zero and low emission vehicles. heavy duty vehicles will be addressed in a separate regulation. the united nations developed a new technical regulation for passenger car emissions and co 2. this new world light duty test procedure ( wltp ) is focused primarily on better aligning laboratory co 2 and fuel consumption figures with customer-reported figures. the introduction of wltp in europe started in september 2017 and is likely to require updates to co 2 labeling, thereby impacting taxes in countries with a co 2 tax scheme as well as the above-mentioned co 2 fleet regulations for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. costs associated with new or incremental testing for wltp could be significant. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. to limit ghg emissions, the eu directive on mobile air conditioning currently requires the replacement of the current refrigerant with a lower global warming potential refrigerant for new vehicle types, and for all newly registered vehicles starting in january 2017. a refrigerant change adds considerable costs along the whole manufacturing chain. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014 2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in february 2013. part 1 draft regulations for the 2021 model year and beyond were published in march 2017 and are in line with u.s. requirements. mexico adopted fuel economy/co 2 standards, based on the u.s. one national program framework, that took effect in 2014. recently, the government agreed to carryover 2016 model year standards into the 2017 and 2018 model years. standards for the 2019 model year and later are being developed. many asia pacific countries (such as australia, china, india, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam) are developing or enforcing fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, south korea has set fuel efficiency targets for 2020, with incentives for early adoption. in september 2017, china published the method for parallel administration on corporate average fuel consumption of passenger car and new energy vehicle ( nev ) credit, which aims to improve fuel efficiency and to set targets for new energy vehicles. the fuel efficiency targets and nev mandate will impact the cost of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy-efficiency labeling program, indicating fuel consumption rates for all light-duty vehicles. brazil has required inclusion of emission classification on fuel economy labels since january 2016. brazil also published a new automotive regime establishing a minimum absolute cafe value as a function of fleet corporate average mass for 2017 light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine in order to qualify for industrialized products tax reduction. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency improvements are achieved and maintained through 2020. penalties are applied if the energy efficiency levels are not maintained. brazil reduced the import tax on electric and hybrid cars. the tax rate, which was 35%, will vary from zero to 7%, depending on a vehicle's energy efficiency. discussion on new fuel efficiency requirements has started. chile introduced a tax based on urban fuel consumption and nox emission for light and medium vehicles beginning in late 2014. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. 10 item 1. business (continued) in the middle east, the kingdom of saudi arabia introduced new light duty vehicle fuel economy standards, which are patterned after the u.s. cafe standard structure, with fuel economy targets following the design of the u.s. 2012 2016 fuel economy standards. the standards became effective on january 1, 2016 and became fully phased in at the end of 2017. vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emission and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance issue exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced un-ece regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new safety and recall requirements in china, india, and gulf cooperation council countries also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. in south america, additional safety requirements are being introduced or proposed in argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and uruguay, influenced by the new car assessment program for latin america and the caribbean ( latin ncap ), which may be a driver for similar actions in other countries. in canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with u.s. regulations. however, under the canadian motor vehicle safety act the minister of transport has broad powers to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the minister considers it would be in the interest of safety. in china, a new mandatory event data recorder regulation is under development that is more complex than u.s. requirements, and in china, malaysia, and south korea, mandatory e-call requirements have been drafted. new car assessment programs. organizations around the globe rate and compare motor vehicles in new car assessment programs ( ncaps ) to provide consumers with additional information about the safety of new vehicles. ncaps use crash tests and other evaluations that are different than what is required by applicable regulations, and use stars to rate vehicle safety, with five stars awarded for the highest rating and one for the lowest. achieving high ncap ratings can add complexity and cost to vehicles. china finalized the 2018 ncap protocol with more stringent pedestrian protection and automatic emergency braking requirements compared to the united states and europe. china will also launch a new safety assessment, china insurance vehicle safety index ( civsi ), that is similar to the u.s. iihs in 2018. taiwan may also draft ncap requirements in 2018. 11 item 1. business (continued) employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2016 and 2017 was as follows (in thousands): 2016 2017 automotive north america 101 100 south america 15 14 europe 52 54 middle east &amp; africa 3 3 asia pacific 23 23 financial services ford credit 7 7 other ford smart mobility llc - 1 total 201 202 substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive segment are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). at december 31, 2017 , approximately 56,400 hourly employees in the united states were represented by the uaw. approximately 1.5% of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2017, we entered into collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, australia, brazil, britain, france, mexico, taiwan, and thailand. in 2018, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, brazil, germany, india, mexico, russia, spain, and thailand. engineering, research, and development we engage in engineering, research, and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products and services. engineering, research, and development expenses for 2015 , 2016 , and 2017 were $6.7 billion, $7.3 billion, and $8 billion, respectively. item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions. we have announced fitness redesign plans to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability. if these fitness actions are not successful, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability . if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, due to a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow . for a discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of mobility and electrification depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of autonomous vehicles and mobility services. rapid changes to our industry, including the introduction of new types of competitors who may possess technological innovations, increase the significance that we are able to anticipate, develop, and deliver products and services that customers desire. ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and suvs) at levels beyond our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2017 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 35 million units in 2017, an increase of about 4 million units from the prior year. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. changes in commodity prices, currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility. as a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see overview to item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. concerns persist regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual european currency area ( euro area ) countries. these concerns have been exacerbated by brexit. we have a sterling revenue exposure and a euro cost exposure; a sustained weakening of sterling against euro may have an adverse effect on our profitability. further, the united kingdom may be at risk of losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, which may result in increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports that could have an adverse effect on our profitability. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors. a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford's or its suppliers' facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and therefore cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). such single-source suppliers also could threaten to disrupt our production as leverage in negotiations. a significant disruption to our production schedule could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed . the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defects, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers. the cost to complete a recall or customer satisfaction action could be exacerbated to the extent such action relates to a global platform. furthermore, launch delays or recall actions could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance . safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations affecting ford may become more stringent. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles increase sharply to approximately 50 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles through the 2025 model year; even more burdensome regulations are likely to follow. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. we are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more electrified vehicles with lower ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. the u.s. government has pursued an enforcement action against a major competitor in connection with its alleged use of defeat devices in hundreds of thousands of light duty diesel vehicles, collecting billions of dollars for environmental remediation projects and civil penalties. several of the competitor's employees have been indicted on charges of committing federal crimes. the competitor also faces various class action suits, as well as numerous claims and investigations by various u.s. states and other nations. the emergence of this issue has led to increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world , which in turn has triggered investigations of other manufacturers. these events have led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. for more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by suppliers, to process, transmit , and store electronic information that is important to the operation of our business and our vehicles. despite security measures, we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise the privacy of personal information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; affect the performance of in-vehicle systems; and/or impact the safety of our vehicles. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. we have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and such attacks are likely to occur in the future. the techniques used for attacks by third parties change frequently and may become more sophisticated, which may cause cyber incidents to be difficult to detect for long periods of time. our networks and in-vehicle systems may also be affected by computer viruses or breaches due to the negligence or misconduct of employees, contractors , and/or others who have access to our networks and systems. a significant cyber incident could impact production capability, harm our reputation, and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, marketing programs, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be influenced by these factors, as well as by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. ford credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's retail automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. 17 item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. most of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 40% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 98% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. we and the entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2017 use nine regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 61 manufacturing plants as shown in the table below: automotive business units plants north america 31 south america 8 europe 16 middle east &amp; africa 2 asia pacific 4 total 61 included in the number of plants shown above are plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive segment. the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns are as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford vehicles sourced from ford. in addition to domestic assembly, flh imports ford brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific region, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( ford sollers ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers ojsc ( sollers ), in which ford has control. the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia, and has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture has been approved to participate in russia's industrial assembly regime, which qualifies it for reduced import duties for parts imported into russia. the joint venture operates three manufacturing facilities and one engine plant in russia. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is majority owned (87.43%) by the state of vietnam represented by the ministry of industry and trade) (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. 18 item 2. properties (continued) in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive segment are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of the automotive unconsolidated joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf operates five assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant in china where it produces and distributes an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces engines for ford and mazda vehicles manufactured in china. ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is the sole supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles for europe and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also manufactures the cargo truck for the turkish and certain export markets and certain engines and transmissions, as well as certain components mainly for the transit for supply to other regions. the joint venture owns three plants, a parts distribution depot, and a new research and development center in turkey. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with getrag international gmbh, a german company belonging to magna powertrain gmbh. gft operates plants in halewood, england; cologne, germany; bordeaux, france; and kechnec, slovakia to produce, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles ford transit, ford everest, ford engines, and non-ford vehicles and engines for distribution in china and in other export markets. jmc operates two assembly plants and one engine plant in nanchang, and is constructing a new passenger vehicle assembly plant in nanchang. jmc also operates a plant in taiyuan that assembles heavy duty trucks and engines. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment, and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to the operations' total assets. 19 item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for a discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicles. in many, no monetary amount of damages is specified or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us. we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy, or emerged from bankruptcy relieved of liability for such claims. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles. we are prepared to defend these cases and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, sometimes more than one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. we have one environmental legal proceeding to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: notice of violation to ford chicago assembly plant . on august 17, 2015, u.s. epa issued a notice of violation to our chicago assembly plant. epa alleges that the plant violated several requirements related to its air permit. monetary sanctions, if any, have not yet been determined. 20 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. at this time, we have no such purported class actions filed against us. other matters brazilian tax matters. two brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority currently have outstanding substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. our appeals with the state of o paulo and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level. in the state of minas gerais, where three cases are pending, one remains at the administrative level and two have been appealed to the judicial court. to proceed with an appeal within the judicial court system, an appellant may be required to post collateral. to date we have not been required to post any collateral. the state assessments are part of a broader conflict among various states in brazil. the federal legislature enacted laws designed to encourage the states to end that conflict, and in 2017 the states reached an agreement on a framework for resolution. we expect the amount of any remaining assessments by the states to be resolved under that framework. the federal assessments are outside the scope of the legislation. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied, and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). on august 9, 2017, the cit ruled in our favor. on october 6, 2017, cbp filed a notice of appeal to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit. if we prevail on appeal, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 21 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2018: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board september 2006 60 james p. hackett (b) president and chief executive officer may 2017 62 james d. farley, jr. executive vice president and president, global markets june 2017 55 joseph r. hinrichs executive vice president and president, global operations june 2017 51 marcy klevorn executive vice president and president, mobility june 2017 58 raj nair executive vice president and president, north america june 2017 53 bob shanks executive vice president and chief financial officer april 2012 65 hau thai-tang executive vice president, product development and purchasing june 2017 51 steven armstrong group vice president and president, europe, middle east &amp; africa june 2017 53 joy falotico group vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. october 2016 50 peter fleet group vice president and president, asia pacific july 2017 50 kumar galhotra group vice president, lincoln and chief marketing officer november 2017 52 bradley m. gayton group vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel june 2017 54 bruce hettle group vice president manufacturing and labor affairs january 2016 56 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations january 2004 50 kimberly pittel group vice president sustainability, environment &amp; safety engineering january 2017 58 john lawler vice president and controller &amp; chief financial officer, global markets june 2017 51 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. except as noted below, each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. prior to becoming president and chief executive officer of ford, james p. hackett was the chief executive officer of steelcase inc. until march 2014; a member of ford's board of directors from 2013 to 2016; and the chairman of ford smart mobility llc from march 2016 to may 2017. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose or by a resolution to fill a vacancy. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 22 part ii. item 5. market for common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock, and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2016 and 2017: 2016 2017 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 14.00 $ 14.22 $ 14.04 $ 13.20 $ 13.27 $ 11.70 $ 12.06 $ 12.81 low 11.02 12.00 11.90 11.07 11.41 10.67 10.47 11.87 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock 0.40 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.20 0.15 0.15 0.15 __________ (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nyse.com. as of january 31, 2018, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 120,626 holders of common stock and 3 holders of class b stock. in the second quarter of 2017, we completed a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation granted during 2017. the plan authorized repurchases of up to 11.8 million shares of ford common stock . 23 item 6. selected financial data. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 total revenues $ 146,917 $ 144,077 $ 149,558 $ 151,800 $ 156,776 income before income taxes $ 14,371 $ 1,234 $ 10,252 $ 6,796 $ 8,148 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 2,425 4 2,881 2,189 520 net income 11,946 1,230 7,371 4,607 7,628 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (7 ) (1 ) (2 ) 11 26 net income attributable to ford motor company $ 11,953 $ 1,231 $ 7,373 $ 4,596 $ 7,602 earnings per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,935 3,912 3,969 3,973 3,975 basic income $ 3.04 $ 0.31 $ 1.86 $ 1.16 $ 1.91 diluted income 2.94 0.31 1.84 1.15 1.90 cash dividends declared 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.85 0.65 common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high 18.02 18.12 16.74 14.22 13.27 low 12.10 13.26 10.44 11.02 10.47 balance sheet data at year-end total assets $ 202,204 $ 208,615 $ 224,925 $ 237,951 $ 257,808 automotive debt $ 15,683 $ 13,824 $ 12,839 $ 15,907 $ 15,931 financial services debt 99,005 105,347 120,015 127,063 138,356 total equity $ 26,173 $ 24,465 $ 28,657 $ 29,187 $ 34,918 24 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview non-gaap financial measures that supplement gaap measures we use both generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and non-gaap financial measures for operational and financial decision making, and to assess company and segment business performance. the non-gaap measures listed below are intended to be considered by users as supplemental information to their equivalent gaap measures, to aid investors in better understanding our financial results. we believe that these non-gaap measures provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends, and a means to assess our period-over-period results. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with gaap. these non-gaap measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in items or events being adjusted. company adjusted pre-tax profit (most comparable gaap measure: net income attributable to ford) the non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our pre-tax results excluding pre-tax special items. pre-tax special items consist of (i) pension and other postretirement employee benefits ( opeb ) remeasurement gains and losses that are not reflective of our underlying business results, (ii) significant restructuring actions related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and (iii) other items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. when we provide guidance for adjusted pre-tax profit, we do not provide guidance on a net income basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. adjusted earnings per share (most comparable gaap measure: earnings per share) measure of company's diluted net earnings per share adjusted for impact of pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides investors with useful information to evaluate performance of our business excluding items not indicative of the underlying run rate of our business. when we provide guidance for adjusted earnings per share, we do not provide guidance on an earnings per share basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. adjusted effective tax rate (most comparable gaap measure: effective tax rate) measure of company's tax rate excluding pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides an ongoing effective rate which investors find useful for historical comparisons and for forecasting. when we provide guidance for adjusted effective tax rate, we do not provide guidance on an effective tax rate basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. company operating cash flow (most comparable gaap measure: net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities) - measure of company's operating cash flow excluding ford credit's operating cash flows. the measure contains elements management considers operating activities, including automotive and mobility capital spending and settlement of derivatives. the measure excludes cash outflows for automotive and mobility funded pension contributions, separation payments, and other items that are considered operating cash outflows under u.s. gaap. this measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management's assessment of the company's operating cash flow performance. ford credit managed receivables (most comparable gaap measure: net finance receivables plus net investment in operating leases) measure of ford credit's total net receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). the measure is useful to management and investors as it closely approximates the customer's outstanding balance on the receivables, which is the basis for earning revenue. 25 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit managed leverage (most comparable gaap measure: financial statement leverage) ford credit's debt-to-equity ratio adjusted (i) to exclude cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (other than amounts related to insurance activities), and (ii) for derivative accounting. the measure is useful to investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are deducted because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support operations and on-balance sheet securitization transactions. derivative accounting adjustments are made to asset, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments used with ford credit's term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature, so the interim effects of changes in market interest rates are excluded in the calculation of managed leverage. revenue our automotive segment revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories. revenue is recorded when control is transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies with an obligation to repurchase the vehicle for a guaranteed amount, exercisable at the option of the customer. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue upon transfer of control of the vehicle to the customer. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant automotive legal entity in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services segment revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services segments occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the cost for these incentives is included in our estimate of variable consideration at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions between our automotive and financial services segments. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive segment total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 26 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: contribution costs these costs typically vary with production volume. these costs include material, commodity, warranty, and freight and duty costs. structural costs these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and opeb costs. while contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift, or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full-year 2017 were $142.9 billion. our automotive segment's material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of these costs and expenses, representing in 2017 about two-thirds of the total amount. structural costs are the largest piece of the remaining balance. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve raised its policy interest rate three times in 2017, after single rate increases in 2015 and 2016. central banks in other developed markets have also initiated or signaled the end of an extended period of monetary policy easing. the related shifts in capital flows have contributed to increased volatility for both developed and emerging market currencies globally. emerging markets also face differing inflation backdrops and, in some cases, political instability, contributing to unpredictable movements in the value of their exchange rates. in addition to direct impacts on the financial flows of global automotive companies, currency movements can also impact pricing of vehicles exported to overseas markets, most notably in the case of the yen. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. however, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 130 million units exceeded global production by about 35 million units in 2017. in north america and europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 17% and 20%, respectively, in 2017. in china, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 57% of production in 2017, as manufacturers compete to capitalize on china's future market potential. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 40 million units per year during the period from 2018 to 2023. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. 27 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) commodity and energy price changes. the price of oil has increased since late 2017, supported by global demand growth and an extended agreement among oil-producing nations to maintain modest output reductions. still, oil prices remain well below prior peaks. in addition, after several years of low prices, stronger global demand has put upward pressure on other commodity prices, including steel, aluminum, and other metals used in the manufacturing of our vehicles. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 135% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. in addition, government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in markets that promote free trade. while we believe the long-term trend is toward the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. in asia pacific, for example, a weak yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers. over a period of time, a weak yen can contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. although in recent months interest rates have risen, mature market government bond yields and inflation have remained lower than expected. at the same time, government deficits and debt remain at high levels in many major markets. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies cities are becoming more congested. fortunately, vehicles that move people in city infrastructures are becoming smarter. our opportunity is to leverage the capability of smart vehicles in smart environments to attack the congestion problem through a new transportation operating system. we also have an opportunity to improve logistics. currently, there is an inefficient operating system for the delivery of goods. the growth of internet sales has resulted in more deliveries, which is compounding the problem of city congestion. we can imagine a world where smart vehicles in a smart world improve traffic flow, reduce congestion, and improve logistics. in response to these trends, we refined our strategy in 2017 to focus on resetting revenue and attacking costs in the short-term, and redesigning our business to compete and win in the future. to that end, we have identified five priorities: 1. rapidly improving our fitness to lower costs, release capital, and finance growth 2. accelerating the introduction of connected, smart vehicles and services 3. re-allocating capital to where we can win in the future 4. continuously innovating to create the most human-centered mobility solutions 5. empowering our team to work together effectively to compete and win in 2017, we took several actions to help achieve these priorities, including: we launched fitness redesign efforts that are focused on customer centricity, simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability we announced collaborations with dominos, lyft, and postmates in the united states to support autonomous vehicle development and testing. we also announced collaborations with mahindra in india and zotye in china to provide access to technology, capabilities, and scale that will enhance our competitive position we invested in autonomic to accelerate growth in digital services we announced a plan to achieve 100% connectivity for new vehicles in the united states by 2019 and 90% globally by 2020 we announced that we are shifting toward a lower volume passenger car lineup in north america and europe, and we are playing to our strengths by investing in authentic off-roaders and high performance city crossovers we announced a plan to launch a performance suv battery electric vehicle that offers at least a 300-mile range at the start of 2018, we announced a plan to increase our investment in electrification expected to be over $11 billion by 2022 to substantially increase the number of battery electric vehicles we offer around the world. and we will have more to announce in 2018 as we remain focused on designing smart vehicles for a smart world that help people move more safely, confidently, and freely. 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2017 total company net income attributable to ford. the chart below shows our net income attributable to ford for full year 2017: net income attributable to ford for full year 2017 was $7.6 billion or $1.90 diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock, an increase of $3 billion or $0.75 per share compared with 2016, due to the significantly lower remeasurement loss on pension and opeb plans and favorable tax planning actions. full year 2017 pre-tax results of our automotive segment, financial services segment, all other, special items, and taxes are discussed in the following sections in results of operations - 2017. revenue. company revenue for full year 2017 was $156.8 billion, $5 billion higher than 2016. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2017 were $142.9 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion compared with 2016. the detail for the change is shown below (in billions): lower/(higher) volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (3.9 ) contribution costs material excluding commodities (0.1 ) commodities (1.2 ) freight and other 0.1 warranty structural costs (0.7 ) special items 0.1 total $ (5.7 ) 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) equity. at december 31, 2017, total equity attributable to ford was $34.9 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion compared with december 31, 2016. the detail for this change is shown below (in billions): increase/(decrease) net income $ 7.6 shareholder distributions (2.7 ) other comprehensive income adoption of accounting standards 0.6 common stock issued (including share-based compensation impacts) 0.2 total $ 5.7 the chart below shows our full year 2017 total company adjusted pre-tax results and pre-tax results of our automotive segment by regional business unit, our financial services segment, and all other. our company adjusted pre-tax profit for full year 2017 was $8.4 billion, a decrease of $1.9 billion from 2016. our company adjusted pre-tax profit consisted of automotive segment profit of $7.3 billion, a strong profit of $2.2 billion in the financial services segment, and a loss of $1.1 billion in all other. automotive results were driven by north america. in total, our automotive operations outside north america generated a loss of $252 million, $673 million lower than in 2016 driven largely by expected brexit effects in europe. our adjusted earnings per share of common and class b stock was $1.78, an increase of $0.02 per share, due to favorable tax planning actions. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive segment pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below, with net pricing and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors : volume and mix primarily measures profit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average contribution margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the profit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing primarily measures profit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, special lease offers, and stock adjustments on dealer inventory contribution costs primarily measures profit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs structural costs primarily measures profit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing, including volume related consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), and new product launch expense. these costs could be affected by volume for operating pattern actions such as overtime, line-speed, and shift schedules engineering consists primarily of costs for engineering personnel, prototype materials, testing, and outside engineering services spending-related consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange primarily measures profit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging other includes a variety of items, such as parts and services profits, royalties, government incentives and compensation-related changes in addition, definitions and calculations used in this report include: wholesales and revenue wholesale unit volumes include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our china joint venture, jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ), that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue automotive segment operating margin defined as automotive segment pre-tax profit divided by automotive segment revenue industry volume and market share based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy duty trucks a utomotive cash includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) references to automotive records for operating cash flow, operating margin, and business units are since at least 2000. the charts on the following pages detail full year 2017 key metrics and the change in full year 2017 pre-tax results compared with full year 2016 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its business units north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific. shown above are the key financial metrics for our automotive segment for full year 2017. wholesale volumes were about flat while automotive revenue was up 3% due to favorable mix, higher volume from consolidated operations, and favorable net pricing. global industry volume, estimated at 94.9 million units, was up 2.2 million units or 2% compared to a year ago. the increase was driven by asia pacific, europe, and south america. global market share, at 7%, was down two-tenths of a percentage point, reflecting lower share in asia pacific, europe, and middle east &amp; africa. market share was up in south america and flat in north america. our automotive operating margin was 5% and pre-tax profit was $7.3 billion. both metrics were lower than a year ago. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown above are the factors that contributed to the $2.2 billion decline in full year automotive segment pre-tax profit. the lower profit was primarily explained by higher commodities and adverse exchange. all other factors about offset. higher commodities were driven by metals, primarily steel, and adverse exchange was driven by the sterling, reflecting brexit effects of about $600 million, along with the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, and argentine peso. favorable market factors were driven by improved mix in all regions, excluding south america, and higher net pricing in all regions, except asia pacific, reflecting negative industry pricing in china. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2017, north america generated a full year pre-tax profit of $7.5 billion with an operating margin of 8%. wholesale volume was down 2% while revenue was up 1% from a year ago. north america and u.s. industry volume, at 21.5 million units and 17.5 million units, respectively, were each down 300,000 units. our north america market share was flat, with u.s. share up two-tenths of a point to 14.8%. the increase was driven by f-series (with share up four-tenths), utilities, and lincoln. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america's full year 2017 pre-tax profit was $1.5 billion lower than a year ago. the decrease was driven by higher commodities, mainly steel and other metals; expedition/navigator launch effects, reflecting lower volume and higher costs, both product and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing; and adverse exchange driven primarily by the canadian dollar. the higher engineering expense primarily reflects utilities, autonomous vehicles, and commercial vehicles. the favorable mix was driven by the strength of f-series and utilities. within the united states, average retail transaction prices were $1,300 per vehicle higher compared to a year ago, more than double the industry average increase. (average retail transaction prices are based on j.d. power and associates pin data). our incentives were up slightly as a percent of revenue, but less than the industry average. 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2017, south america generated a pre-tax loss of $784 million, an improvement of $325 million, or 29%, from a year ago. all full year key metrics were improved from a year ago, as macroeconomic conditions continue to show signs of improvement. wholesale volume increased by 15% and revenue was up 21% from a year ago. industry volume for the region, at 4.2 million units, was 13% higher than 2016 due to growth in brazil and argentina. our market share for the region, at 8.9%, was up one-tenth of a percentage point due to the strong performance of ka in brazil. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america's full year 2017 pre-tax loss improved $325 million compared to a year ago due to higher industry volume and favorable net pricing. this was partially offset by unfavorable cost performance due to the effects of high inflation and higher product costs net of efficiencies, driven by the all-new ecosport. unfavorable exchange was primarily due to the weaker argentine peso. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2017, europe delivered a full year pre-tax profit of $234 million and an operating margin of 0.8%, both down sharply from a year ago. wholesale volume increased by 3% and revenue was up 4% from a year ago. europe industry volume, at 20.9 million units, was 4% higher than a year ago. europe's market share, at 7.5%, was down two-tenths of a percentage point reflecting limited product availability, primarily due to the all-new fiesta launch ramp-up. 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe's full year 2017 pre-tax profit was $971 million lower than a year ago driven by brexit effects, reflecting the weaker sterling and lower u.k. industry, offset partially by favorable net pricing in the united kingdom; higher commodities, mainly steel and other metals; fiesta launch effects, reflecting lower volume and higher costs, both product and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing; and higher warranty costs. although not shown, results in russia continued to improve. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2017, middle east &amp; africa generated a pre-tax loss of $263 million, an improvement of $39 million, or 13%, from a year ago. wholesale volume was lower than a year ago, as the sharp and sustained decline of the middle east industries required the distributors to adjust their stock level in line with the lower industry level. industry volume for the region, at 3.6 million units, was down 100,000 units from 2016. within this, the markets where we participate declined 300,000 units. our market share was 3.9%, down six-tenths of a percentage point due to unfavorable market mix and market performance in the middle east. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) middle east &amp; africa's full year 2017 pre-tax result improved $39 million from a year ago. all factors improved other than volume. favorable cost performance and exchange, reflecting the stronger south african rand and euro, offset lower volume. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2017, asia pacific generated a pre-tax profit of $561 million and an operating margin of 4%, both down from a year ago. wholesale volume was down 3% while revenue from consolidated operations was up 17%. asia pacific industry volume was 44.8 million units, up 1.4 million units from 2016, including a 700,000 unit increase in china industry volume, estimated at 28.2 million units, and a 300,000 unit increase in india industry volume, estimated at 4 million units. our asia pacific market share was 3.4%, down three-tenths of a percentage point. china share decreased four-tenths of a percentage point to 4.2%, reflecting increased competitive entries, primarily in the suv segment. asia pacific achieved record full-year lincoln sales in china, up 55% from a year ago. our china joint ventures contributed $916 million to pre-tax profit, reflecting our equity share of the unconsolidated jvs' after-tax earnings. this was $523 million lower than last year. net income margin was 10.9%, down 3.7 percentage points. the decline in margin reflects negative industry pricing in china and a higher mix of vehicles with engine displacement of 1.6 liters or lower. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific's full year 2017 pre-tax profit was $66 million lower than a year ago due to market performance in china and unfavorable exchange. lower net pricing compared to a year ago reflects negative pricing trends in china. favorable cost performance reflects our continued focus on material cost reductions. unfavorable exchange was driven by the chinese renminbi and thai baht. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services segment in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's pre-tax results using the causal factors listed below: volume and mix: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average managed receivables at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin) at prior period exchange rates. volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding for the purchase of retail installment sale and lease contracts and to provide wholesale financing mix primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by period over period changes in the composition of ford credit's average managed receivables by product and by country or region financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average managed receivables at prior period exchange rates. this calculation is performed at the product and country level and then aggregated. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average managed receivables for the same period financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management credit loss: credit loss is the change in the provision for credit losses at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information on the allowance for credit losses, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value (which includes both base and accumulated supplemental depreciation) of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term, and changes in the estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold. for additional information on accumulated supplemental depreciation, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section exchange: reflects changes in pre-tax results driven by the effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, and insurance expenses at prior period exchange rates changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts in general, other revenue changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates) and other miscellaneous items 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition, the following definitions and calculations apply to ford credit when used in this report: cash (as shown on the funding structure, liquidity sources, and leverage charts) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, excluding amounts related to insurance activities securitizations (as shown on the public term funding plan chart) public securitizations, rule 144a offerings sponsored by ford credit, and widely distributed offerings by ford credit canada term asset-backed securities (as shown on the funding structure chart) obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements total debt (as shown on the leverage chart) debt on ford credit's balance sheet. includes debt issued in securitizations and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions total net receivables (as shown on the key metrics and receivables reconciliation charts) includes finance receivables (retail and wholesale) sold for legal purposes and net investment in operating leases included in securitization transactions that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. these receivables and operating leases are reported on ford credit's balance sheet and are available only for payment of the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay the other obligations of ford credit or the claims of ford credit's other creditors in 2017, ford credit's full year pre-tax profit was $2.3 billion. receivables were higher with growth globally led by retail receivables. average placement fico scores remained strong, and ford credit's origination, servicing, and collection practices continued to be disciplined and consistent. the loss-to-receivables ratio of 53 basis points was up 6 basis points and within expectations. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's full year 2017 pre-tax profit was $431 million higher than 2016, led primarily by receivables growth, lease residual performance, and financing margin. the improvement in lease residual performance was driven by higher than expected auction values. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) all other all other is a combination of central treasury operations and ford smart mobility llc, two operating segments that did not meet the quantitative thresholds in this reporting period to qualify as reportable segments. the central treasury operations segment is primarily engaged in decision making for investments, risk management activities, and providing financing for the automotive segment. interest income (excluding interest earned on our extended service contract portfolio that is included in our automotive segment), interest expense, gains and losses on cash equivalents and marketable securities, and foreign exchange derivatives associated with intercompany lending are included in the results of central treasury operations. the underlying assets and liabilities, primarily cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, debt, and derivatives, remain with the automotive segment. ford smart mobility llc is a subsidiary formed to design, build, grow, and invest in mobility services. designed to compete like a start-up company, ford smart mobility llc designs and builds mobility services on its own, and collaborates with start-ups and tech companies. in 2017, pre-tax results for all other were a loss of $1.1 billion, a $203 million greater loss compared with a year ago. this increase is primarily explained by higher net interest expense and ford smart mobility llc's results. special items our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows: taxes our provision for income taxes for full year 2017 was $520 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 6.4%, both lower than 2016, reflecting benefits for foreign tax credits expected to be realized in the foreseeable future, non-u.s. restructuring, and the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017. our full year 2017 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 15.3%, reflecting the same benefits from foreign tax credits mentioned above. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2016 total company net income attributable to ford. the chart below shows our net income attributable to ford for full year 2016: net income attributable to ford for full year 2016 was $4.6 billion or $1.15 diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock, a decrease of $2.8 billion or $0.69 per share compared with 2015. full year 2016 pre-tax results of our automotive segment, financial services segment, all other, and special items, as well as taxes are discussed in the following sections in results of operations - 2016. revenue. company revenue for full year 2016 was $151.8 billion, $2.2 billion higher than a year ago. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for the full year 2016 were $137.2 billion, an increase of about $1.9 billion compared with 2015. the detail for the change is shown below (in billions): lower/(higher) volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (0.1 ) contribution costs material excluding commodities (0.3 ) commodities 0.9 warranty and other (0.4 ) structural costs (1.5 ) special items (0.5 ) total $ (1.9 ) 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) equity. at december 31, 2016, total equity attributable to ford was $29.2 billion, an increase of $0.5 billion compared with december 31, 2015. the detail for this change is shown below (in billions): increase/ (decrease) net income $ 4.6 dividends (3.4 ) other comprehensive income (0.8 ) compensation-related equity issuances 0.2 treasury stock share repurchases (0.1 ) total $ 0.5 the chart below shows our full year 2016 total company adjusted pre-tax results and pre-tax results of our automotive segment by regional business unit, our financial services segment, and all other, which is mainly net interest expense. our total company adjusted pre-tax profit for full year 2016 was $10.4 billion, or $1.76 of adjusted earnings per share of common and class b stock, a decrease of $425 million or $0.17 per share compared with 2015. our total company adjusted pre-tax profit consisted of our second-best automotive segment profit of $9.4 billion, a solid profit of $1.8 billion in the financial services segment, and a loss of $867 million in all other. automotive results were driven by north america, a record profit in europe, and the second-best profit in asia pacific. in total, our automotive operations outside north america delivered a full year profit of $421 million, $198 million higher than in 2015. 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment the charts on the following pages detail full year 2016 key metrics and the change in full year 2016 pre-tax results compared with full year 2015 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its business units north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific. shown above are the key financial metrics for our automotive segment for full year 2016. wholesales and revenue were about the same as 2015 with all other metrics down, consistent with our expectations for the year. global industry volume, estimated at 91.4 million units, was up 3.2 million units or 4%. the increase was driven by industry gains in asia pacific, europe, and north america. global market share was down one-tenth of a percentage point driven by lower market share in north america and south america. market share was flat in europe and higher in middle east &amp; africa and asia pacific. our automotive operating margin was 6.7% and pre-tax profit was $9.4 billion. both metrics were the second-best for a full year and only slightly lower than our record performance in 2015. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) shown above are the factors that contributed to the $146 million decline in full year 2016 automotive segment pre-tax profit. the lower profit was more than explained by higher warranty costs, including about $600 million for the door latch recall we announced in the third quarter of 2016. market factors were favorable, driven by strong mix in all regions except south america. this more than offset unfavorable dealer stock changes which reflected stock reductions this year compared to increases in 2015 in north america, europe, and asia pacific. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america generated a full year 2016 pre-tax profit of $9 billion with an operating margin of 9.7%. north america industry, at 21.8 million units, was up 300,000 units, reflecting increases in mexico, the united states, and canada. u.s. industry, at 17.9 million units, was up 100,000 units. our north america market share was down one-tenth of a percentage point, with u.s. share down by one-tenth of a point to 14.6%. the decrease was driven by lower retail sales, mainly cars. f-series retail share was a partial offset, improving two-tenths from 2015. included in north america's profit is about $600 million for the door latch recall we announced in the third quarter of 2016, which negatively impacted north america's operating margin by six-tenths of a percentage point. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america's full year pre-tax 2016 profit was $344 million lower than 2015 driven by unfavorable stock changes and higher recall costs. the unfavorable stock changes reflect decreases in dealer stock this year compared to increases in 2015 when we were building f-150 stock after the kansas city plant launch. it also reflects actions to align production to demand for several vehicles. the higher product costs reflect primarily the impact of our first major refresh of the super duty. the non-repeat of 2015's one-time ratification bonus related to the uaw agreement was a partial offset. within the united states, average retail transaction prices were $1,300 per vehicle higher compared to 2015, more than double the industry average increase. (average retail transaction prices are based on j.d. power and associates pin data). our incentives were up as a percent of revenue, but less than the industry average. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) all full year 2016 key metrics were lower than 2015, reflecting the difficult external environment. industry volume for the region, at 3.7 million units, was 500,000 units lower than 2015 due to brazil. our market share for the region, at 8.8%, was down eight-tenths of a percentage point, reflecting our continued focus on optimizing more profitable share amid higher industry discounting. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) south america's full year 2016 loss was $277 million greater than in 2015. this was more than explained by the unfavorable effects of high local inflation and weaker local currencies exceeding higher net pricing and favorable cost performance. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe delivered a record full year profit of $1.2 billion and a record operating margin of 4.2% in 2016, both up sharply from 2015. europe industry volume, at 20.1 million units, was 5% higher than 2015. europe's market share, at 7.7%, was unchanged from 2015. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe's full year 2016 pre-tax profit improved $946 million from 2015. this was driven by favorable mix, reflecting increasing demand for our higher trim series across all major vehicle lines, and improved cost performance, reflecting our continued focus on material cost reductions. improved results in russia also contributed to europe's favorable year-over-year profit improvement. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) middle east &amp; africa's operating margin and pre-tax results in 2016 were down sharply from 2015, reflecting difficult external conditions resulting in lower volume and unfavorable exchange, primarily the south african rand. industry volume for the region, at 3.6 million units, was down 700,000 units from 2015. lower industry volume was the primary driver in the 14% reduction in our wholesale volume. our market share for the region was 4.5%, up one-tenth of a percentage point. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2016, asia pacific generated its second-best full year pre-tax profit. wholesale volume increased by 10% while revenue from consolidated operations was up 12%. asia pacific industry was 42.1 million units, up 3.0 million units from 2015, primarily explained by a 2.9 million unit increase in china industry volume, estimated at 26.4 million units. the increase was driven by the government purchase tax incentive for vehicles with engine displacements of 1.6 liters or lower. our asia pacific market share was 3.8%, up two-tenths of a percentage point. the improvement in share was driven by new product introductions, including taurus, edge, lincoln mkx, and lincoln mkz. our china joint ventures contributed $1.4 billion to asia pacific's pre-tax profit, reflecting our equity share of the unconsolidated jvs' after-tax earnings; this was $75 million lower than in 2015. our china joint ventures' net income margin was 14.6%, a reduction of 1 percentage point from 2015. the decline in margin reflects negative industry pricing in china and a higher mix of vehicles with engine displacement of 1.6 liters or lower. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific's full year 2016 profit was $627 million, down $138 million from 2015, reflecting lower net pricing, adverse exchange effects (mainly a weaker chinese renminbi), and unfavorable cost performance. lower net pricing in 2016 compared to 2015 reflected continued negative pricing trends in china. unfavorable cost performance was driven by cost increases to support higher volumes and continued investment for future product and regulatory actions. the investments in structural cost were offset partially by our continued focus on material cost efficiencies. volume and mix were up reflecting higher industry volume in china and improved mix from new product launches. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services segment ford credit's receivables in 2016 were higher than 2015, in line with expectations, and while full year pre-tax profit was lower, it remained solid at $1.9 billion. portfolio performance remained robust, despite higher ltrs. origination, servicing, and collection practices remained disciplined and consistent. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's lower full year 2016 pre-tax profit is primarily explained by unfavorable lease residual performance and credit losses. favorable volume and mix, driven by growth in consumer and non-consumer finance receivables globally and operating leases in north america, was a partial offset. lease residual performance primarily reflects higher depreciation in north america as we expect lower auction values in the future. credit loss performance primarily reflects higher charge-offs in north america. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) all other our full year 2016 all other pre-tax results were a loss of $867 million, a $71 million higher loss compared with 2015. this increase is more than explained by higher net interest expense, offset partially by lower net losses on cash equivalents and marketable securities. special items our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows: taxes our provision for income taxes for full year 2016 was $2.2 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of 32.2%. our full year 2016 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 31.9%. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources automotive segment liquidity . one of our key priorities is to maintain a strong balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to invest in and grow our business. based on our planning assumptions, we believe we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products and services that customers want and value, transform and grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a sustainable regular dividend at the current level, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. our key balance sheet metrics include total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (collectively automotive cash ), automotive liquidity, which includes automotive cash and total available committed credit lines, and cash net of debt. at december 31, 2017, we had $26.5 billion of automotive cash, of which about 90% was held by consolidated entities domiciled in the united states. we target to have an average ongoing automotive cash balance of about $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to (i) future cash flow expectations, such as for investments in future opportunities, capital investments, debt maturities, pension contributions, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. our automotive cash investments primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, commercial paper rated a-1/p-1 or higher, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments is approximately one year, and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our automotive cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition to our target automotive cash balance, we also target to maintain a corporate credit facility, discussed below, for our automotive business of about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. we assess the appropriate long-term target for total automotive liquidity, which includes automotive cash and the corporate credit facility, to be about $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. at december 31, 2017, we had $37.4 billion of automotive liquidity. our automotive cash and automotive liquidity targets could be reduced over time based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. changes in automotive cash. changes in automotive cash are summarized below: in managing our automotive business, we classify changes in automotive cash into operating and other items. operating items include: automotive segment pre-tax profits, capital spending, depreciation and tooling amortization, changes in working capital, and all other and timing differences. non-operating items include: separation payments, transactions with other segments, acquisitions and divestitures, changes in automotive debt, contributions to funded pension plans, and shareholder distributions. automotive operating cash flow was $3.9 billion in 2017, more than explained by automotive segment pre-tax profits. automotive total cash outflow of $1 billion in 2017 includes $1.4 billion of funded pension contributions and $2.7 billion of shareholder distributions. capital spending was $7 billion in 2017 and is projected to be about $7.5 billion in 2018. based on expected cash flows and the identification of additional opportunities for profitable growth, the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, restructuring, and infrastructure is expected to be about $8 billion annually through 2021. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive segment trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods, when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. available credit lines . total committed automotive credit lines at december 31, 2017 were $12.1 billion, consisting of $10.4 billion of our corporate credit facility and $1.7 billion of local credit facilities available to non-u.s. automotive affiliates. at december 31, 2017, the utilized portion of the corporate credit facility was about $35 million, representing amounts utilized for letters of credit. at december 31, 2017, the utilized portion of the local credit facilities was about $1.1 billion. lenders under our corporate credit facility have commitments to us totaling $13.4 billion, with 75% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2022 and 25% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2020. we have allocated $3 billion of commitments to ford credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its liquidity. any borrowings by ford credit under the corporate credit facility would be guaranteed by us. the corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p (each as defined under credit ratings below), the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. debt. total automotive debt at december 31, 2017 was $15.9 billion, unchanged from december 31, 2016. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program . see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding the atvm loan. leverage. we manage automotive debt levels with a leverage framework to maintain strong, investment grade credit ratings through a normal business cycle. the leverage framework includes a ratio of automotive debt, underfunded pension liabilities, operating leases, and other adjustments, divided by automotive income before income tax, adjusted for depreciation, amortization, interest expense on automotive debt, and other adjustments. ford credit's leverage is described in the liquidity - financial services section of item 7. ford credit is self-funding and its debt, which is used to fund its operations, is separate from our automotive debt. 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) financial services segment ford credit funding overview. ford credit's primary funding and liquidity objective is to be well capitalized with a strong, investment grade balance sheet and ample liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit's liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. ford credit annually stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it continues to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). ford credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states and other international markets. at december 31, 2017, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $5.5 billion. at december 31, 2017, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was $4.9 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations. funding portfolio. the chart below shows the trends in funding for ford credit's managed receivables: managed receivables of $151 billion as of december 31, 2017 were funded primarily with term debt and term asset-backed securities. securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables was 35%. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit expects the mix of securitized funding to remain around 35%. the calendarization of the funding plan will result in quarterly fluctuations of the securitized funding percentage. public term funding plan. the chart below shows ford credit's issuances for full-year 2015, 2016, and 2017, and its planned issuances for full-year 2018, excluding short-term funding programs: in 2017, ford credit completed $32 billion of public term funding. for 2018, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $27 billion to $33 billion. ford credit's total unsecured public term funding plan is categorized by currency of issuance. ford credit plans to issue its euro-denominated debt from the united states. through february 7, 2018, ford credit has completed $4.3 billion of public term issuances. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the chart below shows ford credit's liquidity sources and utilization: ford credit's liquidity available for use will fluctuate quarterly based on factors including near-term debt maturities, receivable growth, and timing of funding transactions. ford credit targets liquidity of at least $25 billion. at december 31, 2017, ford credit's liquidity available for use was $29.5 billion, $2.5 billion higher than year-end 2016. ford credit's sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset-backed facilities, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate credit facility allocation. ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. ford credit ensures its cumulative debt maturities have a longer tenor than its cumulative asset maturities. this positive maturity profile is intended to provide ford credit with additional liquidity after all of its assets have been funded. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. the chart below shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage and managed leverage: ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding amounts related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates . ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2017, ford credit's financial statement leverage was 8.7:1, and managed leverage was 8.0:1. ford credit targets managed leverage in the range of 8:1 to 9:1. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total company pension plan contributions and strategy. our strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. we have made significant progress in implementing this strategy over the last several years. for example, we have limited liability growth by closing our funded plans to new participants and have reduced plan deficits through discretionary contributions. going forward, we expect to: limit our pension contributions to offset ongoing service cost or meet regulatory requirements, if any; continue progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and evaluate strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as plan design changes, curtailments, or settlements worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $6.6 billion at december 31, 2017, an improvement of $2.3 billion from december 31, 2016, primarily as a result of asset returns, demographics, and contributions offsetting lower discount rates. of the $6.6 billion underfunded status at year-end 2017, $6.5 billion, or about 98%, is associated with our unfunded plans. these are pay as you go, with benefits paid from general company cash. these unfunded plans primarily include certain plans in germany, and u.s. defined benefit plans for senior management. the u.s. weighted-average discount rate decreased 43 basis points to 3.60% at year-end 2017 from 4.03% at year-end 2016. the non-u.s. weighted average discount rate decreased 11 basis points to 2.33% at year-end 2017 from 2.44% at year-end 2016. asset returns in 2017 for our u.s. plans were 13.4%, reflecting fixed income gains as long-term interest rates fell. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2017 was 76%, one percentage point higher than year-end 2016. asset returns for our non-u.s. plans were 4.5%, reflecting fixed income gains offset by unfavorable exchange. the fixed income mix in our non-u.s. plans at year-end 2017 was 80%, four percentage points higher than year-end 2016. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2017, we contributed $1.4 billion (most of which were mandatory contributions) to our global funded pension plans, an increase of $200 million compared with 2016. the contributions in 2017 included a pull-ahead of about $500 million of 2018 planned funding into the fourth quarter of 2017 to achieve a cash tax benefit. as a result of this pull-ahead, during 2018, we expect to contribute about $500 million (most of which are mandatory contributions) from automotive cash to our global funded pension plans. we also expect to make about $350 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of $850 million. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. plans in 2018. after 2018, we expect contributions to our global funded plans of about $1 billion per year, limited to ongoing service cost. our global funded plans are now fully funded in aggregate, which is an important milestone demonstrating the effectiveness of our de-risking strategy and our commitment to a strong balance sheet. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. return on invested capital. we analyze total company performance using a return on invested capital ( roic ) financial metric based on an after-tax rolling five-year average, which we believe is appropriate given our industry's product and investment cycles. the following table contains the calculation of our roic for the years shown: 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit ratings our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs limited ( dbrs ); fitch, inc. ( fitch ); moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of mcgraw hill financial ( s&amp;p ) in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. the following rating actions were taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2017: on january 30, 2018, moody's revised the outlook to negative from stable for ford and ford credit and affirmed their ratings. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb bbb stable bbb r-2m stable bbb (low) fitch bbb bbb stable bbb f2 stable bbb- moody's n/a baa2 negative baa2 p-2 negative baa3 s&amp;p bbb bbb stable bbb a-2 stable bbb- 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2018 major external factors assumptions based on the current environment, we have assumed the following for 2018: we have assumed the following industry volumes: u.s. volume in the low-17 million unit range, including medium-heavy trucks, slightly lower than 2017; brazil volume in the mid-2 million unit range, up roughly 20 percent from 2017; total europe volume in the low-21 million unit range, up slightly from 2017; and china volume in the mid-28 million units range, up slightly from 2017 we expect prices of most key metals to rise in 2018 and remain above the 10-year historical mean. we also expect continued headwinds from currency exchange rates. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) production volumes our full year 2017 production volumes and first quarter 2018 forecast production volumes for our automotive business units are as follows: 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook 2018 company guidance based on the current economic environment, our company guidance for 2018 includes the following: we expect company revenue to be about flat to up modestly as favorable company-specific drivers more than offset slightly lower volumes in the united states. we expect adjusted eps in the range of $1.45 to $1.70. the low end of the range reflects the normal volatility we could see from recalls and further pressure from exchange and commodity prices. it also recognizes potential challenges in fully delivering the recovery actions we have developed and deployed to offset the adverse year-over-year impact of commodities and exchange. we also expect: automotive profit to be flat to lower than in 2017 with continued headwinds from commodities and exchange, and higher market factors driven by mix and net pricing; mobility to have a higher loss due to increased investments in autonomous vehicles and mobility-related capabilities and services; and ford credit profit to remain strong but lower than 2017 due to adverse financing margin from interest rates and derivative revaluation. we expect an adjusted effective tax rate in 2018 of about 15%, which is similar to 2017. we expect to generate positive company operating cash flow, though lower than 2017, driven by adverse working capital and unfavorable timing and other differences. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) cautionary note on forward-looking statements statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including the following factors: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions; industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event; ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance; ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states; ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results; with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events; ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors; ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints; pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition; economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed; ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations affecting ford may become more stringent; ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback; operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents; ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; ford credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) non-gaap financial measure reconciliations the following charts show our non-gaap financial measure reconciliations for: adjusted pre-tax profit, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate, and ford credit managed receivables. the gaap reconciliation for ford credit managed leverage can be found in the financial services segment section of liquidity and capital resources. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2017 supplemental financial information the tables below provide supplemental consolidating financial information. the data is presented by our reportable segments, automotive and financial services. all other, special items, and adjustments include our operating segments that did not meet the quantitative threshold to qualify as a reportable segment, special items (which primarily consists of our pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses), eliminations of intersegment transactions, and deferred tax netting. selected income statement information. the following table provides supplemental income statement information by segment (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2017 automotive financial services all other, special items, &amp; adjustments consolidated total revenues $ 145,653 $ 11,113 $ 10 $ 156,776 total costs and expenses 142,268 9,104 591 151,963 interest expense on automotive debt 1,133 1,133 other income/(loss), net 2,705 207 355 3,267 equity in net income of affiliated companies 1,169 32 1,201 income/(loss) before income taxes 7,259 2,248 (1,359 ) 8,148 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 2,365 (696 ) (1,149 ) 520 net income/(loss) 4,894 2,944 (210 ) 7,628 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 26 26 net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 4,868 $ 2,944 $ (210 ) $ 7,602 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected balance sheet information. the following tables provide supplemental balance sheet information by segment (in millions): december 31, 2017 assets automotive financial services all other &amp; adjustments consolidated cash and cash equivalents $ 8,930 $ 9,558 $ 4 $ 18,492 marketable securities 17,554 2,881 20,435 financial services finance receivables, net 52,210 52,210 trade and other receivables, less allowances 4,049 6,548 2 10,599 inventories 10,277 10,277 other assets 2,631 1,258 3,889 receivable from other segments 57 1,948 (2,005 ) total current assets 43,498 74,403 (1,999 ) 115,902 financial services finance receivables, net 56,182 56,182 net investment in operating leases 1,574 26,661 28,235 net property 35,133 177 17 35,327 equity in net assets of affiliated companies 2,984 101 3,085 deferred income taxes 13,367 247 (2,641 ) 10,973 other assets 6,329 1,702 73 8,104 receivable from other segments 865 (865 ) total assets $ 102,885 $ 160,338 $ (5,415 ) $ 257,808 liabilities payables $ 22,115 $ 1,162 $ 5 $ 23,282 other liabilities and deferred revenue 18,278 1,403 16 19,697 automotive debt payable within one year 3,356 3,356 financial services debt payable within one year 48,265 48,265 payable to other segments 1,945 (1,945 ) total current liabilities 45,694 50,830 (1,924 ) 94,600 other liabilities and deferred revenue 23,602 1,107 2 24,711 automotive long-term debt 12,575 12,575 financial services long-term debt 90,091 90,091 deferred income taxes 155 3,301 (2,641 ) 815 payable to other segments 853 (853 ) total liabilities $ 82,879 $ 145,329 $ (5,416 ) $ 222,792 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected cash flow information. the following tables provide supplemental cash flow information by segment (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2017 cash flows from operating activities automotive financial services all other &amp; adjustments consolidated net income $ 4,894 $ 2,944 $ (210 ) $ 7,628 depreciation and tooling amortization 4,963 4,159 9,122 other amortization 134 (803 ) (669 ) provision for credit and insurance losses 6 711 717 pension and opeb expense/(income) (608 ) (608 ) equity investment (earnings)/losses in excess of dividends received 271 (31 ) 240 foreign currency adjustments (395 ) (8 ) (403 ) net (gain)/loss on changes in investments in affiliates (7 ) (7 ) stock compensation 233 10 3 246 net change in wholesale and other receivables (836 ) (836 ) provision for deferred income taxes 651 (883 ) (232 ) decrease/(increase) in intersegment receivables/payables 7 (28 ) 21 decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable and other assets (1,824 ) (470 ) (3 ) (2,297 ) decrease/(increase) in inventory (959 ) (959 ) increase/(decrease) in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities 5,777 301 11 6,089 other 307 (346 ) 104 65 interest supplements and residual value support to financial services (4,524 ) 4,524 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 8,926 $ 9,244 $ (74 ) $ 18,096 reconciling adjustments to automotive segment operating cash flows* automotive capital spending (7,001 ) settlements of derivatives 217 funded pension contributions 1,434 separation payments 281 other 51 automotive segment operating cash flows $ 3,908 _________ * we measure and evaluate our automotive segment operating cash flow on a different basis than net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. automotive segment operating cash flow includes additional elements management considers to be related to our automotive operating activities, primarily capital spending and non-designated derivatives, and excludes outflows for funded pension contributions, separation payments, and other items that are considered operating cash flows under u.s. gaap. the table above quantifies the reconciling adjustments to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities for the period ended december 31, 2017. 83 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) for the year ended december 31, 2017 cash flows from investing activities automotive financial services all other &amp; adjustments consolidated capital spending $ (7,001 ) $ (45 ) $ (3 ) $ (7,049 ) acquisitions of finance receivables and operating leases (59,354 ) (59,354 ) collections of finance receivables and operating leases 44,641 44,641 purchases of equity and debt securities (21,665 ) (5,898 ) (4 ) (27,567 ) sales and maturities of equity and debt securities 23,582 6,316 29,898 settlements of derivatives 217 (117 ) 100 other (71 ) 17 (7 ) (61 ) investing activity (to)/from other segments 231 (231 ) net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities $ (4,707 ) $ (14,440 ) $ (245 ) $ (19,392 ) cash flows from financing activities automotive financial services all other &amp; adjustments consolidated cash dividends $ (2,584 ) $ $ $ (2,584 ) purchases of common stock (131 ) (131 ) net changes in short-term debt 69 1,160 1,229 proceeds from issuance of other debt 807 44,994 45,801 principal payments on other debt (1,398 ) (39,372 ) (40,770 ) other (46 ) (105 ) (151 ) financing activity to/(from) other segments (315 ) 315 net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities $ (3,283 ) $ 6,362 $ 315 $ 3,394 effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents $ 174 $ 315 $ $ 489 84 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and field service actions nature of estimates required. we provide warranties on the products we sell. separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. we accrue the estimated cost of both basic warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. assumptions and approach used. we establish estimates for warranty and field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty and field service obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on this data, we revise our estimates as necessary. warranty coverages vary; therefore, our warranty accruals vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale for specific periods of time and/or mileage. field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the basic warranty coverage period. our best estimate of the obligation related to field service actions includes expected future payments. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve to determine the year-end obligations. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return considers various sources, primarily inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by plan. historical returns also are considered where appropriate. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. 85 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. assumptions are set at each year-end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2017 weighted average discount rate was 3.60% for u.s. plans and 2.33% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting decreases of 43 and 11 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2016. in 2017, the u.s. actual return on assets was 13.4%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.75%. non-u.s. actual return on assets was 4.5%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 5.19%. in total, these differences, in addition to demographic and other updates, resulted in a net gain of $131 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. for 2018, the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.75% for u.s. plans, unchanged from 2017, and 4.51% for non-u.s. plans, down about 70 basis points compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting an increased allocation to fixed income assets and a lower consensus on capital market return expectations from advisors. de-risking strategy . we employ a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. as we de-risk our plans and increase the allocation to fixed income investments over time, we expect the funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will be significantly reduced. changes in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2017 pension funded status and 2018 expense are affected by year-end 2017 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our obligations and fixed income assets. the table below estimates the impact on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point december 31, 2017 funded status factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $5,000/$(6,200) $5,000/$(6,500) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (4,800)/5,900 (3,400)/4,400 net impact on funded status $200/$(300) $1,600/$(2,100) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., changes in credit spreads, bond coupon and active management excess returns), and growth asset returns. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. 86 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) interest rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year-end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the table below estimates the impact on pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions): basis increase/(decrease) in point 2018 expense factor change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 bps. $40/$(40) $10/$(10) expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 25 (110)/110 (70)/70 the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for worldwide opeb plans at december 31, 2016 was 4%, compared with 3.61% at december 31, 2017, resulting in a worldwide loss of about $293 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. sensitivity analysis. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our opeb obligation and expense. the table below estimates the impact on 2018 opeb expense of higher/lower assumptions for these factors (in millions): worldwide opeb basis (increase)/decrease 2017 ye obligation increase/(decrease) 2018 expense point factor change discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps. $700/$(900) n/a interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 n/a $5/$(5) income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $1.5 billion is required, primarily related to deferred tax assets in various non-u.s. operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $10.2 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets and concluded that no valuation allowance is required. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements. 87 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses represents ford credit ' estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date. the adequacy of ford credit's allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 11 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables and on operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. the models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit ' present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. therefore, ford credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit's allowance for credit losses is based on assumptions regarding: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period, measured as repossessions; repossession ratio reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time divided by the average number of contracts outstanding; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle. collective allowance for credit losses. the collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to- receivables ( ltr ) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. the ltr model is based on the most recent years of history. an ltr for each product is calculated by dividing credit losses (i.e., charge-offs net of recoveries) by average net finance receivables or average net investment in operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). the average ltr that is calculated for each product is multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product. ford credit's largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. the loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail or lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to ford credit's active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred. the loss emergence period ( lep ) is an assumption within ford credit's models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. this time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. it is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. the lep is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. for accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. specific allowance for impaired receivables . consumer receivables involved in troubled debt restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the contract's original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. 88 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions): assumption basis point change increase/(decrease) frequency - repossession ratio +/- 10 bps $41/$(41) loss severity per unit +/- 100 5/(5) non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical ltr ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral. collective allowance for credit losses. ford credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using a ltr model for each financing product based on historical experience. this ltr is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables ltr approach. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. specific allowance for impaired receivables. dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). the loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the financial services interest, operating, and other expenses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within financial services finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. 89 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the impact of the change in assumptions on future auction values and return volumes would increase or decrease accumulated supplemental depreciation and depreciation expense over the remaining terms of the operating leases. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions): assumption basis point change increase/(decrease) future auction values +/- 100 bps $(123)/$123 return volumes +/- 100 23/(23) adjustments to the amount of accumulated supplemental depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in financial services interest, operating, and other expenses. 90 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accounting standards issued but not yet adopted the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has issued the following standards, which are not expected to have a material impact (with the exception of standards 2016-02 and 2016-13) to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures: standard effective date (a) 2016-18 statement of cash flows - restricted cash january 1, 2018 2016-16 income taxes - intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory january 1, 2018 2016-15 statement of cash flows - classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments january 1, 2018 2016-01 financial instruments - recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities january 1, 2018 (b) 2017-12 derivatives and hedging january 1, 2019 (b) 2017-08 nonrefundable fees and other costs - premium amortization on purchased callable debt securities january 1, 2019 2016-02 leases january 1, 2019 (b) (c) 2016-13 credit losses - measurement of credit losses on financial instruments january 1, 2020 (b) __________ (a) early adoption for each of the standards, except standard 2016-01, is permitted. (b) for additional information, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. (c) the fasb has issued the following update to the leases standard: accounting standard update ( asu ) 2018-01 (land easement practical expedient for transition to topic 842). we will adopt the new leases guidance effective january 1, 2019. 91 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services segment. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2017 (in millions): payments due by period 2018 2019 - 2020 2021 - 2022 thereafter total non-financial services on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) $ 1,946 $ 2,216 $ 1,383 $ 9,208 $ 14,753 interest payments relating to long-term debt 748 1,209 1,108 7,779 10,844 capital leases (b) 48 109 19 12 188 pension funding (c) 243 352 349 944 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,538 1,595 801 459 4,393 operating leases 330 485 229 331 1,375 total non-financial services 4,853 5,966 3,889 17,789 32,497 financial services on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) 31,115 53,679 26,259 10,405 121,458 interest payments relating to long-term debt 2,859 3,783 1,647 1,057 9,346 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 4 18 22 operating leases 7 11 7 6 31 total financial services 33,985 57,491 27,913 11,468 130,857 total company $ 38,838 $ 63,457 $ 31,802 $ 29,257 $ 163,354 __________ (a) excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments. (b) includes interest payments of $17 million. (c) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. and ford-werke plans. see note 17 for further information regarding our expected 2018 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2017 of $2.1 billion (see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 13 , 17 , and 18 , respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 92 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services segments differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and the committee includes our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services segments are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps, and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive segment and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market risk our automotive segment frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the production of our vehicles and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk), as of december 31, 2016, was an asset of $528 million compared with a liability of $22 million as of december 31, 2017. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would 93 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) have been $2.7 billion at december 31, 2016, compared with $2.8 billion at december 31, 2017. the sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies. in reality, foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure. see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts). the extent to which we hedge is also impacted by our ability to achieve designated hedge accounting. the net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2016 was an asset of $5 million compared with an asset of $33 million as of december 31, 2017. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be $54 million at december 31, 2016, compared with $69 million at december 31, 2017. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc, as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the loss we could incur in our automotive segment investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2016, we had $27.5 billion in our automotive segment investment portfolios, compared to $26.5 billion at december 31, 2017. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $243 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2016. this compares to $270 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2017. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. counterparty risk counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance, which is calculated from counterparty credit ratings and market-based credit default ( cds ) spreads. the exposure limits are lower for smaller and lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer dated exposures. our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for minimum counterparty long-term ratings. 94 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk market risk for ford credit is the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value. interest rate risk . generally, ford credit's assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured debt and securitization debt. ford credit's unsecured term debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a parallel shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. pre-tax cash flow sensitivity at december 31 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity 2016 2017 one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates $ 21 $ 14 one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (a) (21 ) (14 ) _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. 95 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros, sterling, and renminbi. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure, relating to changes in currency exchange rates at december 31, 2017, is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments at december 31, 2016 was an asset of $743 million, compared to an asset of $625 million at december 31, 2017.risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions. we have announced fitness redesign plans to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability. we are working on 18 major initiatives as part of our fitness redesign efforts. in addition, to further improve our fitness and overall competitiveness, we are leveraging relationships with third parties, including the recently announced alliance with volkswagen ag to develop commercial vans and medium-sized pickups for global markets beginning as early as 2022. the goal of the alliance is to drive scale and efficiencies and enable both companies to share investments in vehicle architectures. if our fitness actions are not successful or are delayed, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability . industry vehicle sales are affected by overall economic and market conditions. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow . for a discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. it takes years to design and develop a new vehicle or change an existing vehicle. because customers' preferences may change quickly, our new and existing products may not generate sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of mobility and electrification depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of autonomous vehicles and mobility services. rapid changes to our industry, including the introduction of new types of competitors who may possess technological innovations, increase the significance that we are able to anticipate, develop, and deliver products and services that customers desire. ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and utilities) at levels beyond our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our results and financial condition. ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2018 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 42 million units in 2018, an increase of about 7 million units from the prior year. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity, particularly for trucks and utilities, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. changes in commodity prices (from tariffs or otherwise), currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility. as a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see the overview section of item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including brexit. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. recent steps taken by the u.s. government to apply and consider applying tariffs on automobiles, parts, and other products and materials have the potential to disrupt existing supply chains and impose additional costs on our business. further, other countries could attempt to retaliate by imposing tariffs that would increase the cost for us to import our vehicles into such countries. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) concerns persist regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual european countries. these concerns have been exacerbated by brexit. a hard brexit, which would result in the united kingdom losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, would likely result in a significant reduction in industry volumes in the united kingdom, increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports, and delays at the u.k. border. the total cost to us of a hard brexit, not including currency exchange related effects, could be $500 million to $1 billion in 2019. we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors. a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford's or its suppliers' facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, as a result of labor disputes in response to potential restructuring actions (e.g., plant closures), as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and therefore cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). such single-source suppliers also could threaten to disrupt our production as leverage in negotiations. a significant disruption to our production schedule could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed . the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the cost of recall and customer satisfaction actions to remedy defects in vehicles that have been sold could be substantial, particularly if the actions relate to global platforms or involve defects that are identified years after production (e.g., takata airbag inflators). such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers, and our ability to recover from the suppliers may be limited by the suppliers' financial condition. furthermore, launch delays, recall actions, and increased warranty costs could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance . ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations that may change in the future. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has increased, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles increase sharply to approximately 50 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles through the 2025 model year; the zev mandate is now being expanded to include medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, and even more burdensome regulations are likely to follow. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. we are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more electrified vehicles with lower ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world has led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. court decisions arising out of consumer and investor litigation could give rise to de facto changes in the interpretation of existing emission laws and regulations, thereby imposing new burdens on manufacturers. for more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by suppliers, to process, transmit, and store electronic information that is important to the operation of our business and our vehicles. despite security measures, we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise the privacy of personal information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; affect the performance of in-vehicle systems; and/or impact the safety of our vehicles. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. we, our suppliers, and our dealers have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and such attacks are likely to occur in the future. the techniques used for attacks by third parties change frequently and may become more sophisticated, which may cause cyber incidents to be difficult to detect for long periods of time. our networks and in-vehicle systems may also be affected by computer viruses or breaches due to the negligence or misconduct of employees, contractors, and/or others who have access to our networks and systems. a significant cyber incident could harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation, and a significant cyber incident involving us or one of our suppliers could impact our production capability. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the united states and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of personal information of customers, employees, or others, including laws that may require us to notify regulators and affected individuals of a data security breach. regulatory actions seeking to impose significant penalties and/or legal actions could be brought against us in the event of a data breach or perceived or actual non-compliance with data protection or privacy requirements. among these requirements is the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which came into effect on may 25, 2018. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. the potential phase out of libor is one such risk that could cause market volatility or disruption. in july 2017 the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unknown whether any banks will continue to voluntarily submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021 or whether libor will continue to be published by its administrator based on these submissions or on any other basis. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, but the potential phase out of libor could adversely affect ford credit's access to the capital markets and cost of funding. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, marketing programs, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be influenced by these factors, as well as by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. ford credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation and supervision under various federal, state, and local laws, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. 3 item 1. business (continued) intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we have approximately 60,000 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just over four and a half years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions. we provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 23 of the notes to the financial statements. 4 item 1. business (continued) wholesales wholesales consist primarily of vehicles sold to dealerships. for the majority of such sales, we recognize revenue when we ship the vehicles to our customers (i.e., the dealerships) from our manufacturing facilities. see the overview section in item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices. wholesales in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: wholesales (a) (in thousands of units) 2016 2017 2018 united states 2,588 2,566 2,540 canada 313 308 295 mexico 103 82 69 north america 3,019 2,967 2,920 brazil 182 215 235 argentina 101 115 86 south america 325 373 365 united kingdom 428 418 387 germany 283 277 313 eu21 (b) 1,387 1,429 1,439 russia 45 54 51 turkey 116 116 65 europe 1,539 1,582 1,533 middle east &amp; africa 161 119 109 china 1,267 1,215 731 australia 82 78 65 india 86 88 98 asean (c) 106 122 117 asia pacific 1,607 1,566 1,055 total company 6,651 6,607 5,982 _______ (a) wholesale unit volume includes sales of medium and heavy trucks. wholesale unit volume includes all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volume. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volume (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. (b) eu21 markets are united kingdom, germany, france, italy, spain, austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, finland, greece, hungary, ireland, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, romania, russia, sweden, and switzerland. (c) asean includes philippines, thailand, and vietnam. 5 item 1. business (continued) retail sales, industry volume, and market share retail sales, industry volume, and market share in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: retail sales (a) industry volume (b) market share (c) (in millions of units) (in millions of units) (as a percentage) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 united states 2.6 2.6 2.5 17.9 17.6 17.7 14.6 % 14.7 % 14.1 % canada 0.3 0.3 0.3 2.0 2.1 2.0 15.4 14.9 14.7 mexico 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.6 1.5 6.2 5.3 4.8 north america 3.0 3.0 2.9 21.8 21.5 21.5 13.9 13.9 13.4 brazil 0.2 0.2 0.2 2.1 2.2 2.6 9.2 % 9.6 % 9.2 % argentina 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 0.8 13.6 12.9 12.1 south america 0.3 0.4 0.4 3.7 4.2 4.5 8.8 8.9 8.3 united kingdom 0.4 0.4 0.4 3.1 3.0 2.8 14.0 % 13.8 % 13.7 % germany 0.3 0.3 0.3 3.7 3.8 3.8 7.6 7.7 7.9 eu21 (d) 1.4 1.4 1.4 18.6 19.3 19.6 7.5 7.3 7.2 russia 0.0 0.1 0.1 1.5 1.6 1.8 2.9 3.1 2.9 turkey 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.0 0.6 11.4 11.9 10.9 europe 1.5 1.6 1.5 20.1 20.9 20.9 7.7 7.5 7.2 middle east &amp; africa 0.2 0.1 0.1 3.7 3.6 3.8 4.4 % 3.8 % 3.0 % china (e) 1.3 1.2 0.8 27.5 28.2 26.2 4.6 % 4.2 % 2.9 % australia 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 6.9 6.6 6.0 india 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.7 4.1 4.4 2.4 2.2 2.2 asean (f) 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.5 1.6 1.7 7.0 7.5 6.6 asia pacific (e) 1.6 1.5 1.1 43.4 44.8 43.5 3.7 3.4 2.5 global n/a n/a n/a 92.8 95.0 94.2 7.2 % 7.0 % 6.3 % total company 6.7 6.6 6.0 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a ______________ (a) retail sales represents primarily sales by dealers and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) industry volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe; includes medium and heavy trucks. (c) market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry volume in the relevant market or region. (d) eu21 markets are united kingdom, germany, france, italy, spain, austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, finland, greece, hungary, ireland, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, romania, russia, sweden, and switzerland. (e) china and asia pacific market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. (f) asean includes philippines, thailand, and vietnam. u.s. sales by type the following table shows 2018 u.s. retail sales volume and u.s. wholesales segregated by truck, suv, and car sales. u.s. retail sales volume reflects transactions with (i) retail and fleet customers (as reported by dealers), (ii) government, and (iii) ford management. u.s. wholesales reflect sales to dealers. u.s. retail sales u.s. wholesales trucks 1,139,079 1,156,022 suvs 872,215 937,845 cars 486,024 445,999 total vehicles 2,497,318 2,539,866 6 item 1. business (continued) mobility segment our mobility segment primarily includes development costs related to our autonomous vehicles and our investment in mobility through fsm. autonomous vehicles includes self-driving systems development and vehicle integration, autonomous vehicle research and advanced engineering, autonomous vehicle transportation-as-a-service network development, user experience, and business strategy and business development teams. fsm designs and builds mobility services on its own, and collaborates with start-ups and technology companies. ford credit segment our wholly-owned subsidiary ford credit offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and direct financing leases for new vehicles to retail and commercial customers, including leasing companies, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. ford credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing, as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit also provides financing to us for vehicles that we lease to our employees. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operations are managed primarily through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany, representing 58% of fce's finance receivables and operating leases at year-end 2018 . the following table shows ford credit's financing and lease shares of new ford and lincoln vehicle retail sales in the united states and new ford vehicles sold in europe, as well as its wholesale financing shares of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states and new ford vehicles acquired by dealers in europe: years ended december 31, 2016 2017 2018 united states - financing share retail installment and lease share of ford retail sales (excl. fleet) 56 % 55 % 58 % wholesale 76 76 76 europe - financing share (incl. fleet) retail installment and lease share of total ford sales 37 % 37 % 38 % wholesale 98 98 98 see item 7 and notes 10 , 11 , and 13 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. 7 item 1. business (continued) we have an amended and restated relationship agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5:1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5:1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. the agreement also allocates to ford credit $3 billion of commitments under our corporate credit facility. in a separate agreement with fce, ford credit has agreed to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million. no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements federal and california emission standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. pursuant to the clean air act, california may establish its own vehicle emission standards, which can then be adopted by other states. both the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) and the california air resources board ( carb ) have established tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards for light and medium duty vehicles that become increasingly stringent through the 2025 model year. thirteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards. compliance with both the federal and california standards can, in some cases, be challenging. both federal and california regulations require motor vehicles to be equipped with on-board diagnostic ( obd ) systems that monitor emission-related systems and components. as obd requirements become more complex and challenging over time, they could lead to increased vehicle recalls and warranty costs. compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. fuel variables that can affect vehicle emissions include ethanol content, octane ratings, and the use of metallic-based fuel additives, among other things. legislative, regulatory, and judicial developments related to fuel quality at both the national and state levels could affect vehicle manufacturers' warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards. the california vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ). the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles through the 2025 model year. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. compliance with zev rules could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volumes and profits. we are concerned that the market and infrastructure in california may not support the large volume of advanced-technology vehicles that manufacturers will be required to produce, especially if gasoline prices remain relatively low . we also are concerned about enforcement of the zev mandate in other states that have adopted california's zev program, where the existence of a market for such vehicles is even less certain. california is now in the process of promulgating new zev regulations aimed at medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, effective no earlier than the 2024 model year. these rules, which could entail significant costs and compliance challenges, are also expected to include burdensome warranty and recall requirements. 8 item 1. business (continued) european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new stage 6 emission standards took effect for vehicle registrations starting in september 2014, and a second phase introduced a new laboratory test cycle for co 2 and emissions in september 2017. these standards drive the need for additional diesel exhaust after-treatment, which adds cost to, and potentially impacts, the diesel co 2 advantage. the mandatory real driving emission ( rde ) rules require manufacturers to conduct on-road emission tests using portable emission analyzers. these on-road emission tests complement the laboratory-based tests. in 2017, manufacturers began to reduce the divergence between the regulatory limit that is tested in laboratory conditions and the values of rde tests ( conformity factors ). the costs associated with conducting the rde tests and complying with the conformity factors are significant. in december 2018, the european court of first instance ruled that the eu commission must decrease this divergence to zero within the next 12 months. such a short lead time may result in our inability to sell products in the eu if we are unable to timely satisfy any new requirements. it is unclear whether the european commission will appeal the court's decision or change the base regulation. regardless of the ultimate resolution before the court, a second step for rde to further reduce the conformity factors becomes mandatory for new vehicle type approvals by authorities starting in january 2020. the rde in-use surveillance rules were published in november 2018, and they further increase the stringency of emission requirements by allowing third parties to conduct testing and defining a process by which those third parties may challenge a product's compliance with authorities. the wvta (whole vehicle type approval) regulations are being adapted to cover increased market surveillance, and the eu commission announced that in 2018 it will begin to discuss air quality modeling scenarios for the next steps of emission standards post stage 6. there is an increasing trend of city access restrictions for internal combustion engine powered vehicles, in particular in european cities that do not meet air quality limits. depending on city and country, the conditions for access will vary (e.g., different emission limits or vehicle requirements), which indirectly impact residual values and sales of internal combustion powered vehicles prior to restrictions being agreed. there might also be a need to retrofit emission after-treatment of vehicles. there are also discussions in several european countries to ban the registration of internal combustion powered vehicles in the future as a part of their plan to meet their country specific targets as part of the paris accord. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality and climate change concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emission regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, in december 2016, the china ministry of environmental protection ( mep ) finalized emission regulations based on european stage vi emission standards for light duty vehicles and u.s. evaporative emissions and obd requirements. the china stage vi standards incorporate two levels of stringency. stage one is slated for implementation by july 1, 2020, and the more stringent stage two level is slated for implementation by july 1, 2023; however, the government has encouraged the more developed cities to pull-ahead implementation. the earliest implementation is expected as early as july 2019. canadian criteria emissions regulations are largely aligned with u.s. requirements. in october 2016, the canadian province of quebec passed legislation enabling regulation of a zev mandate as part of its climate change plan. final regulations were published in december 2017, and came into effect in january 2018. quebec's final regulations are more stringent than those in place in california and the other u.s. zev mandate states. in november 2018, the province of british columbia announced plans to introduce legislation for a zev mandate in the spring of 2019. in south america, there is a mix of regulations and processes based on u.s. and eu standards. brazil has specific regulations for light vehicle emissions (proconve) and obd based on u.s. standards and heavy vehicle emissions based on euro v. not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emission standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if obd or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. 9 item 1. business (continued) global developments. in recent years, epa and carb have increased their focus on the use of defeat devices. defeat devices are elements of design (typically embedded in software) that improperly cause the emission control system to function less effectively during normal on-road driving than during an official laboratory emissions test, without justification. they are prohibited by law in many jurisdictions, and we do not use defeat devices in our vehicles. regulators around the world have increased scrutiny of automakers' emission testing, which has led to a number of defeat device settlements by various manufacturers. epa is carrying out additional non-standard tests as part of its vehicle certification program. carb has also been conducting extensive non-standard emission tests, which in some cases have resulted in certification delays for diesel vehicles. the eu's accelerated efforts to finalize its rde testing program are described above. in 2016, several european countries, including france and germany, conducted non-standard emission tests and published the results. in some cases, this supplemental testing has triggered investigations of manufacturers for possible defeat devices. testing is expected to continue on an ongoing basis. in addition, plaintiffs' attorneys are pursuing consumer class action lawsuits based on alleged excessive emissions from cars and trucks, which could, in turn, prompt further investigations by regulators. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards u.s. requirements light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light duty trucks. epa also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions under the clean air act. because the vast majority of ghgs emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, ghg emission standards effectively are fuel economy standards. thus, it is necessary for nhtsa and epa to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and ghg standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies. in 2010, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations establishing the one national program of cafe and ghg regulations for light duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. in 2012, epa and nhtsa jointly promulgated regulations extending the one national program framework through the 2025 model year. these rules require manufacturers to achieve increasingly stringent standards reaching approximately 50 mpg by the 2025 model year. each manufacturer's specific task depends on the mix of vehicles it sells. the rules include the opportunity for manufacturers to earn credits for technologies that achieve real-world co 2 reductions and fuel economy improvements that are not captured by the epa fuel economy test procedures. manufacturers also can earn credits for ghg reductions not specifically tied to fuel economy, such as improvements in air conditioning systems. the existing one national program standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. we are concerned about the commercial feasibility of meeting future model year ghg and cafe standards, particularly the 2022-2025 standards, because of the many unknowns regarding technology development, market conditions, and other factors so far into the future. the one national program rules provided for a midterm evaluation process under which, by april 2018, epa and nhtsa would re-evaluate their standards for model years 2022-2025 in order to ensure that those standards are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. in april 2018, epa announced its intention to reconsider the ghg standards originally set for those model years, reversing a prior decision. in august 2018, the federal government issued a proposed rule to reduce the stringency of future ghg standards, identifying eight potential scenarios of alternate standards beginning with the 2021 model year. it is expected that by the second quarter of 2019, epa and nhtsa will finalize their rulemaking for future ghg and fuel economy standards. 10 item 1. business (continued) california has asserted the right to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. under the one national program framework discussed above, california and the other states had agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with any purported state ghg requirements for the 2012-2025 model years, thereby avoiding a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. in the wake of the federal government's decision to reconsider the model year 2022-2025 standards, california has taken the position that if there are any changes to the federal standards, it will return to enforcing its own state-specific ghg standards. in contrast, the federal government has taken the position that state ghg standards are preempted by federal law. should california and the federal government remain at odds over ghg standards, there is significant potential for litigation, which, in turn, would give rise to regulatory uncertainty about future ghg and fuel economy standards. such uncertainty would make it difficult for automobile manufacturers to engage in future product planning with confidence. should california and other states be successful in enforcing state-specific motor vehicle ghg rules, the existence of separate state and federal ghg and fuel economy standards would impose significant costs on automobile manufacturers. if any federal or state agency seeks to impose and enforce fuel economy and ghg standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volumes and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient vehicles; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks in order to maintain compliance. u.s. requirements heavy duty vehicles. epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated ghg and fuel economy standards for heavy duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating) through the 2027 model year. in our case, the standards primarily affect our heavy duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. as the heavy duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy duty trucks. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved regulation of passenger car co 2 emissions, with a 2012-2015 phase-in period, that limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 grams per kilometer ( g/km ), using a sliding scale (the eu target slope) based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different co 2 targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles initially registered in a calendar year. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle technologies ( eco-innovations ), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km for a period of time. a penalty system applies to manufacturers failing to meet the individual co 2 targets. pooling agreements between manufacturers are possible under certain conditions. starting in 2020, an eu industry target of 95 g/km has been set, for which 95% of a manufacturer's fleet has to comply; by 2021, 100% of a manufacturer's fleet has to comply. outside of the eu, switzerland, for example, has introduced similar rules, which began phasing-in in july 2012, although the stringency of the industry average emission target is significantly higher in a volatile market. we face the risk of advance premium payment requirements if, for example, unexpected market fluctuation within a quarter negatively impacts our average fleet performance. in separate legislation, complementary measures have been mandated, including requirements related to fuel economy indicators, gear shift indicators, tire pressure monitoring systems, low rolling resistance tires, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. the eu commission introduced in 2011 a co 2 target for commercial light duty vehicles to be at an eu industry average of 175 g/km starting in 2014 and 147 g/km starting in 2020 (with a similar 2020 ruling in switzerland). for multi-stage vehicles (e.g., our transit chassis cabs), the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu legislation for light commercial vehicles also includes a penalty system, super-credits for vehicles below 50 g/km (granted between 2014 and 2017), and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle eco-innovations, pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. the eu is preparing to publish rules that require a reduction of co 2 by 15% for passenger cars and light commercial vans in 2025 compared to 2021, and, in 2030, by 31% for light commercial vans and 37.5% for passenger cars compared to 2021. the eu commission will investigate the introduction of real driving co 2 and life cycle assessment elements. heavy duty vehicles will be addressed in a separate regulation. 11 item 1. business (continued) the united nations developed a new technical regulation for passenger car emissions and co 2. this new world light duty test procedure ( wltp ) is focused primarily on better aligning laboratory co 2 and fuel consumption figures with customer-reported figures. the introduction of wltp in europe started in september 2017 and is likely to require updates to co 2 labeling, thereby impacting taxes in countries with a co 2 tax scheme as well as the above-mentioned co 2 fleet regulations for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. costs associated with new or incremental testing for wltp could be significant. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling to address country targets associated with the paris accord. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. other countries are considering bans on internal combustion engine vehicle registrations in the future. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017 2025 model years. the final regulation for 2014 2018 heavy duty vehicles was published in february 2013. the 2018 model year standards hold through the 2020 model year. final regulations for the 2021 model year and beyond were published in may 2018 and are in line with u.s. requirements. the china fuel consumption requirement uses a weight-based approach to establish targets, specifies year-over-year target reductions, and requires new energy vehicle ( nev ) mandated volumes of plug-in hybrids, battery electric vehicles, or fuel cell vehicles to generate credits equivalent to 10% in 2019 and 12% in 2020. china has set the 2020 fuel consumption fleet average at 5.0l/100km and 4.0l/100km in 2025. the government is projecting further fuel consumption reductions in 2030 and is targeting 3.2l/100km. the fuel efficiency targets and nev mandate will impact the costs of vehicle technology in the future. in south america, brazil was the first country to establish a ghg reduction policy for light duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine. targets had to be achieved for 2017 and must be maintained through 2020. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency targets are achieved, and penalties may be applied if the efficiency levels are not maintained. in december 2018, the next phase of the fuel efficiency program was published and it includes light duty diesel and heavy duty vehicles. other countries in the region are considering a similar approach with the inclusion of a fuel efficiency labeling program in argentina and chile initiating discussions around ghg reduction. 12 item 1. business (continued) vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emission and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance issue exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries have established vehicle safety standards and regulations, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced un-ece regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process and will require the mandatory introduction of multiple active and passive safety features with limited lead time. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several recently launched bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new safety and recall requirements in china, india, and gulf cooperation council countries also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. brazil has set mandatory safety targets and penalties are applied if these levels are not maintained, while a tax reduction may be available for over performance. in canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with u.s. regulations. however, under the canadian motor vehicle safety act the minister of transport has broad powers to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the minister considers it would be in the interest of safety. in china, a new mandatory event data recorder regulation is under development that is more complex than u.s. requirements, and in china, malaysia, and south korea, mandatory e-call requirements have been drafted. new car assessment programs. organizations around the globe rate and compare motor vehicles in new car assessment programs ( ncaps ) to provide consumers with additional information about the safety of new vehicles. ncaps use crash tests and other evaluations that are different than what is required by applicable regulations, and use stars to rate vehicle safety, with five stars awarded for the highest rating and one for the lowest. achieving high ncap ratings, which may vary by country or region, can add complexity and cost to vehicles. 13 item 1. business (continued) employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2017 and 2018 was as follows (in thousands): 2017 2018 north america 100 100 south america 14 12 europe 54 53 middle east &amp; africa 3 4 asia pacific 23 22 total automotive 194 191 ford credit 7 7 mobility 1 1 total company 202 199 substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive segment are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). at december 31, 2018 , approximately 55,400 hourly employees in the united states were represented by the uaw. approximately 1% of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. many non-management salaried employees at our operations outside of the united states also are represented by unions. in 2018, we entered into collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits, and/or other employment provisions) with unions in argentina, brazil, germany, india, mexico, russia, spain, and thailand. in 2019, we will negotiate collective bargaining agreements (covering wages, benefits, and/or other employment provisions) with unions in brazil, france, india, mexico, russia, romania, south africa, thailand, the united kingdom, and the united states. item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions. we have announced fitness redesign plans to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability. we are working on 18 major initiatives as part of our fitness redesign efforts. in addition, to further improve our fitness and overall competitiveness, we are leveraging relationships with third parties, including the recently announced alliance with volkswagen ag to develop commercial vans and medium-sized pickups for global markets beginning as early as 2022. the goal of the alliance is to drive scale and efficiencies and enable both companies to share investments in vehicle architectures. if our fitness actions are not successful or are delayed, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability . industry vehicle sales are affected by overall economic and market conditions. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow . for a discussion of economic trends, see the overview section of item 7. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace. it takes years to design and develop a new vehicle or change an existing vehicle. because customers' preferences may change quickly, our new and existing products may not generate sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of mobility and electrification depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of autonomous vehicles and mobility services. rapid changes to our industry, including the introduction of new types of competitors who may possess technological innovations, increase the significance that we are able to anticipate, develop, and deliver products and services that customers desire. ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and utilities) at levels beyond our current planning assumption whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our results and financial condition. ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the december 2018 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of about 42 million units in 2018, an increase of about 7 million units from the prior year. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity, particularly for trucks and utilities, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. changes in commodity prices (from tariffs or otherwise), currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility. as a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see the overview section of item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including brexit. with the increasing interconnectedness of global economic and financial systems, a financial crisis, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. recent steps taken by the u.s. government to apply and consider applying tariffs on automobiles, parts, and other products and materials have the potential to disrupt existing supply chains and impose additional costs on our business. further, other countries could attempt to retaliate by imposing tariffs that would increase the cost for us to import our vehicles into such countries. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) concerns persist regarding the overall stability of the european union, given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual european countries. these concerns have been exacerbated by brexit. a hard brexit, which would result in the united kingdom losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, would likely result in a significant reduction in industry volumes in the united kingdom, increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports, and delays at the u.k. border. the total cost to us of a hard brexit, not including currency exchange related effects, could be $500 million to $1 billion in 2019. we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors. a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford's or its suppliers' facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, as a result of labor disputes in response to potential restructuring actions (e.g., plant closures), as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints or difficulties, or for other reasons. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and therefore cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). such single-source suppliers also could threaten to disrupt our production as leverage in negotiations. a significant disruption to our production schedule could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed . the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the cost of recall and customer satisfaction actions to remedy defects in vehicles that have been sold could be substantial, particularly if the actions relate to global platforms or involve defects that are identified years after production (e.g., takata airbag inflators). such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers, and our ability to recover from the suppliers may be limited by the suppliers' financial condition. furthermore, launch delays, recall actions, and increased warranty costs could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed above under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance . ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations that may change in the future. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. government regulation has increased, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, in the united states the cafe standards for light duty vehicles increase sharply to approximately 50 mpg by the 2025 model year; epa's parallel co 2 emission regulations impose similar standards. california's zev rules also mandate steep increases in the sale of electric vehicles and other advanced technology vehicles through the 2025 model year; the zev mandate is now being expanded to include medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, and even more burdensome regulations are likely to follow. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. we are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more electrified vehicles with lower ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the current fuel economy, co 2 , and zev standards will be difficult to meet if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers. increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world has led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a number of governments, as well as non-governmental organizations, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change aggressively, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. court decisions arising out of consumer and investor litigation could give rise to de facto changes in the interpretation of existing emission laws and regulations, thereby imposing new burdens on manufacturers. for more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class actions, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by suppliers, to process, transmit, and store electronic information that is important to the operation of our business and our vehicles. despite security measures, we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise the privacy of personal information of customers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; affect the performance of in-vehicle systems; and/or impact the safety of our vehicles. a cyber incident could be caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception. we, our suppliers, and our dealers have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and such attacks are likely to occur in the future. the techniques used for attacks by third parties change frequently and may become more sophisticated, which may cause cyber incidents to be difficult to detect for long periods of time. our networks and in-vehicle systems may also be affected by computer viruses or breaches due to the negligence or misconduct of employees, contractors, and/or others who have access to our networks and systems. a significant cyber incident could harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation, and a significant cyber incident involving us or one of our suppliers could impact our production capability. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the united states and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of personal information of customers, employees, or others, including laws that may require us to notify regulators and affected individuals of a data security breach. regulatory actions seeking to impose significant penalties and/or legal actions could be brought against us in the event of a data breach or perceived or actual non-compliance with data protection or privacy requirements. among these requirements is the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which came into effect on may 25, 2018. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on its credit ratings or its perceived creditworthiness. ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. the potential phase out of libor is one such risk that could cause market volatility or disruption. in july 2017 the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unknown whether any banks will continue to voluntarily submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021 or whether libor will continue to be published by its administrator based on these submissions or on any other basis. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, but the potential phase out of libor could adversely affect ford credit's access to the capital markets and cost of funding. in addition, ford credit may be limited in the amount of receivables it purchases or originates in certain countries or regions if the local capital markets, particularly in developing countries, do not exist or are not adequately developed. similarly, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, marketing programs, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. actual return volumes may be influenced by these factors, as well as by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. ford credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these sources. also, direct on-line or large dealer group financing options provide consumers with alternative finance sources and/or increased pricing transparency. all of these financing alternatives drive greater competition based on financing rates and terms. competition from such institutions and alternative finance sources could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its retail business. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation and supervision under various federal, state, and local laws, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. 19 item 1a. risk factors (continued) the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. most of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 40% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 90% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. we and the entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2018 use eight regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 61 manufacturing and assembly plants as shown in the table below: automotive business units plants north america 32 south america 8 europe 15 middle east &amp; africa 2 asia pacific 4 total 61 included in the number of plants shown above are plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive segment. the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns are as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford vehicles sourced from ford. in addition to domestic assembly, flh imports ford brand built-up vehicles from the asia pacific region, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( ford sollers ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and sollers pjsc ( sollers ), in which ford has control. the joint venture primarily is engaged in manufacturing a range of ford passenger cars and light commercial vehicles for sale in russia, and has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute certain ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture operates three manufacturing facilities and one engine plant in russia. we have begun a strategic review of the joint venture with our joint venture partner to evaluate options regarding the joint venture. 20 item 2. properties (continued) ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is majority owned (87.43%) by the state of vietnam represented by the ministry of industry and trade) (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive segment are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of the automotive unconsolidated joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf operates five assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant in china where it produces and distributes an expanding variety of ford passenger vehicle models. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and changan (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produced engines for ford until november 2018 and continues to produce engines for mazda vehicles manufactured in china. ford and mazda entered into an equity transfer agreement pursuant to which ford sold its interest in cfme to mazda effective as of january 29, 2019. ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is the sole supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles for europe and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also manufactures the cargo truck for the turkish and certain export markets and certain engines and transmissions, as well as certain components mainly for the transit for supply to other regions. the joint venture owns three plants, a parts distribution depot, and a research and development center in turkey. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with magna pt international gmbh (formerly getrag international gmbh), a german company belonging to magna powertrain gmbh. gft operates plants in halewood, england; cologne, germany; bordeaux, france; and kechnec, slovakia to produce, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles ford transit, ford everest, ford territory, ford engines, and non-ford vehicles and engines for distribution in china and in other export markets. jmc operates two assembly plants and one engine plant in nanchang, and is constructing a new passenger vehicle assembly plant in nanchang. jmc also operates a plant in taiyuan that assembles heavy duty trucks and engines. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment, and other physical property owned by our ford credit operations are not material in relation to the operations' total assets. 21 item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for a discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicles. in many, no monetary amount of damages is specified or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us. we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously-targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy, or emerged from bankruptcy relieved of liability for such claims. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles. we are prepared to defend these cases and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, sometimes more than one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. our accrual for asbestos matters includes probable losses for both asserted and unasserted claims. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. we have one environmental legal proceeding to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: notice of violation to ford chicago assembly plant . on august 17, 2015, u.s. epa issued a notice of violation to our chicago assembly plant. epa alleges that the plant violated several requirements related to its air permit. monetary sanctions, if any, have not yet been determined. 22 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. at this time, other than as described below, we have no such purported class actions filed against us. in re: takata airbag product liability litigation; economic loss track cases against ford motor company. on july 16, 2018, ford entered into a settlement agreement related to a consumer economic loss class action pending before the u.s. district court for the southern district of florida. the first case was originally filed on october 27, 2014, against ford, takata, and several other automotive manufacturers, and was brought by consumers who own or owned vehicles equipped with takata airbag inflators. additional cases were subsequently filed in courts throughout the united states and consolidated into a multidistrict case before the florida court, which also included personal injury claims and claims by automotive recyclers. ford's july 16 settlement relates only to the consumer economic loss matters. in these cases, plaintiffs allege that ford vehicles equipped with takata airbags are defective and that ford did not disclose this defect to consumers. plaintiffs allege that they suffered several forms of economic damages as a result of purchasing vehicles with defective airbags. the settlement is for $299 million, which is subject to certain discounts, and court approval. on december 20, 2018, the court overruled all objections and entered a final order approving the settlement. several objectors have filed notices of appeal of the trial court's order. other matters brazilian tax matters. two brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority currently have outstanding substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. our appeals with the state of o paulo and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level. in the state of minas gerais, where three cases are pending, one remains at the administrative level and two have been appealed to the judicial court. to proceed with an appeal within the judicial court system, an appellant may be required to post collateral. to date we have not been required to post any collateral. the state assessments are part of a broader conflict among various states in brazil. the federal legislature enacted laws designed to encourage the states to end that conflict, and in 2017 the states reached an agreement on a framework for resolution. ford brazil continues to pursue a resolution under the framework and expects the amount of any remaining assessments by the states to be resolved under that framework. the federal assessments are outside the scope of the legislation. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied, and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). on august 9, 2017, the cit ruled in our favor. on october 6, 2017, cbp filed a notice of appeal to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit. if we prevail on appeal, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. european competition law matter. on october 5, 2018, fce bank plc received a notice from the italian competition authority (the ica ) concerning an alleged violation of article 101 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the ica alleges that fce bank plc and other parties engaged in anti-competitive practices in relation to the automotive finance market in italy. on january 9, 2019, fce bank plc received a decision from the ica, which included an assessment of a fine against fce bank plc in the amount of about $50 million. fce bank plc plans to appeal the decision and the fine, with the ultimate resolution of the matter potentially taking several years. emissions certification. the company has become aware of a potential concern involving its u.s. emissions certification process. the potential concern does not involve the use of defeat devices in our products. on february 18, 2019, we voluntarily disclosed this matter to the environmental protection agency, and we will fully cooperate with any inquiries. because this matter is preliminary, we cannot predict the outcome, and cannot provide assurance that it will not have a material adverse effect on us. 23 item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2019: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board september 2006 61 james p. hackett (b) president and chief executive officer may 2017 63 james d. farley, jr. president, global markets (c) june 2017 56 joseph r. hinrichs president, global operations (c) june 2017 52 marcy klevorn president, mobility (c) june 2017 59 bob shanks chief financial officer (c) april 2012 66 hau thai-tang chief product development and purchasing officer (c) june 2017 52 bradley m. gayton chief administrative officer and general counsel (c) june 2017 55 kiersten robinson chief human resources officer (c) april 2018 48 cathy o'callaghan vice president, controller and chief financial officer, global markets june 2018 50 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. (c) certain executive officers' titles changed january 1, 2019 without any change in their responsibilities. except as noted below, each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. prior to becoming president and chief executive officer of ford, james p. hackett was the chief executive officer of steelcase inc. until march 2014; a member of ford's board of directors from 2013 to 2016; and the chairman of ford smart mobility llc from march 2016 to may 2017. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose or by a resolution to fill a vacancy. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 24 part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states under the symbol f. the table below shows the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock, for each quarterly period in 2017 and 2018: 2017 2018 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter dividends per share of ford common and class b stock $ 0.20 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.28 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 as of january 31, 2019, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 116,764 holders of common stock and 3 holders of class b stock. in 2018, we repurchased shares of ford common stock from our employees or directors related to certain exercises of stock options, in accordance with our various compensation plans. we also repurchased shares through a modest anti-dilutive share repurchase program to offset the dilutive effect of share-based compensation granted during 2018 and the shares issued in the autonomic transaction described in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2018. the program authorized repurchases of up to 28.5 million shares of ford common stock. we repurchased 8,015,658 shares and 8,000,0000 shares of ford common stock during the first and third quarters of 2018, respectively. 25 item 6. selected financial data. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 total revenues $ 144,077 $ 149,558 $ 151,800 $ 156,776 $ 160,338 income before income taxes $ 1,280 $ 10,179 $ 6,784 $ 8,159 $ 4,345 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 21 2,854 2,184 402 650 net income 1,259 7,325 4,600 7,757 3,695 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) (2 ) 11 26 18 net income attributable to ford motor company $ 1,260 $ 7,327 $ 4,589 $ 7,731 $ 3,677 earnings per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,912 3,969 3,973 3,975 3,974 basic income $ 0.32 $ 1.85 $ 1.16 $ 1.94 $ 0.93 diluted income 0.32 1.83 1.15 1.93 0.92 cash dividends declared 0.50 0.60 0.85 0.65 0.73 balance sheet data at year-end total assets $ 209,227 $ 225,491 $ 238,510 $ 258,496 $ 256,540 automotive debt $ 13,824 $ 12,839 $ 15,907 $ 15,931 $ 13,547 ford credit debt 104,712 119,417 126,464 137,757 140,066 other debt 635 598 599 599 600 total equity $ 25,077 $ 29,223 $ 29,746 $ 35,606 $ 35,966 26 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. overview non-gaap financial measures that supplement gaap measures we use both generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and non-gaap financial measures for operational and financial decision making, and to assess company and segment business performance. the non-gaap measures listed below are intended to be considered by users as supplemental information to their equivalent gaap measures, to aid investors in better understanding our financial results. we believe that these non-gaap measures provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends, and a means to assess our period-over-period results. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with gaap. these non-gaap measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in items or events being adjusted. company adjusted ebit (most comparable gaap measure: net income attributable to ford) earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) includes non-controlling interests and excludes interest on debt (excl. ford credit debt), taxes, and pre-tax special items. this non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our operating results relative to other companies in our industry. pre-tax special items consist of (i) pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses, (ii) significant personnel and dealer-related costs stemming from our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and (iii) other items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. when we provide guidance for adjusted ebit, we do not provide guidance on a net income basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. company adjusted ebit margin (most comparable gaap measure: company net income margin) company adjusted ebit margin is company adjusted ebit divided by company revenue. this non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our operating results relative to other companies in our industry. adjusted earnings per share (most comparable gaap measure: earnings per share) measure of company's diluted net earnings per share adjusted for impact of pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides investors with useful information to evaluate performance of our business excluding items not indicative of the underlying run rate of our business. when we provide guidance for adjusted earnings per share, we do not provide guidance on an earnings per share basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. adjusted effective tax rate (most comparable gaap measure: effective tax rate) measure of company's tax rate excluding pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides an ongoing effective rate which investors find useful for historical comparisons and for forecasting. when we provide guidance for adjusted effective tax rate, we do not provide guidance on an effective tax rate basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. company adjusted operating cash flow (most comparable gaap measure: net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities) measure of company's operating cash flow excluding ford credit's operating cash flows. the measure contains elements management considers operating activities, including automotive and mobility capital spending, ford credit distributions to its parent, and settlement of derivatives. the measure excludes cash outflows for funded pension contributions, separation payments, and other items that are considered operating cash outflows under u.s. gaap. this measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management's assessment of the company's operating cash flow performance. when we provide guidance for company adjusted operating cash flow, we do not provide guidance for net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities because the gaap measure will include items that are difficult to quantify or predict with reasonable certainty, including cash flows related to the company's exposures to foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices (separate from any related hedges), ford credit's operating cash flows, and cash flows related to special items, including separation payments, each of which individually or in the aggregate could have a significant impact to our net cash provided by/(used in) our operating activities. 27 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) adjusted cash conversion (most comparable gaap measure: net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities divided by net income attributable to ford ( cash conversion )) company adjusted cash conversion is company adjusted operating cash flow divided by adjusted ebit. this non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate how much of ford's adjusted ebit is converted into cash flow. adjusted debt to ebitda (most comparable gaap measure: total company debt to net income attributable to ford) this financial leverage ratio is commonly used to assess a company's ability to repay its debt. this measure is useful to management and investors because it helps to assess how long we would need to operate at our current level to repay our debt (excl. ford credit's debt). when we provide guidance for adjusted debt to ebitda, we do not provide guidance for the most comparable gaap measure because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. for more information, see the definitions of adjusted debt and adjusted ebitda. adjusted debt (most comparable gaap measure: total company debt) measure of total company debt (excl. ford credit), adjusted to include unamortized discount/premium and issuance costs (excl. ford credit), operating lease minimum commitments, and net pension liabilities excluding prepaid assets. adjusted ebitda (most comparable gaap measure: net income attributable to ford) measure of company adjusted ebit (see definition), excluding ford credit ebt and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliated companies, and further adjusted to include certain non-pension related special items, depreciation and tooling amortization (excl. ford credit), operating lease expense, and certain pension costs. adjusted roic adjusted return on invested capital ( roic ) provides management and investors with useful information to evaluate the company's after-cash tax operating return on its invested capital for the period presented. adjusted net operating profit after cash tax measures operating results less special items, interest on debt (excl. ford credit debt), and certain pension/opeb costs. average invested capital is the sum of average balance sheet equity, debt (excl. ford credit debt), and net pension/opeb liability. when we provide guidance for adjusted roic, we do not provide guidance on an unadjusted roic basis because it will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end. ford credit managed receivables (most comparable gaap measure: net finance receivables plus net investment in operating leases) measure of ford credit's total net receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). the measure is useful to management and investors as it closely approximates the customer's outstanding balance on the receivables, which is the basis for earning revenue. ford credit managed leverage (most comparable gaap measure: financial statement leverage) ford credit's debt-to-equity ratio adjusted (i) to exclude cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (other than amounts related to insurance activities), and (ii) for derivative accounting. the measure is useful to investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are deducted because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support operations and on-balance sheet securitization transactions. derivative accounting adjustments are made to asset, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments used with ford credit's term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature, so the interim effects of changes in market interest rates are excluded in the calculation of managed leverage. revenue our automotive segment revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories. revenue is recorded when control is transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies with an obligation to repurchase the vehicle for a guaranteed amount, exercisable at the option of the customer. these vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue upon transfer of control of the vehicle to the buyer. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant automotive legal entity in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our ford credit segment revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and ford credit segments occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the cost for these incentives is included in our estimate of variable consideration at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the incentive amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions between our automotive and ford credit segments. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive segment total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: contribution costs these costs typically vary with production volume. these costs include material, commodity, warranty, and freight and duty costs. structural costs these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and opeb costs. while contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift, or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full-year 2018 were $147.7 billion. our automotive segment's material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of these costs and expenses, representing in 2018 about two-thirds of the total amount. structural costs are the largest piece of the remaining balance. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve raised its policy interest rate four times in 2018, for a total of nine increases since the tightening cycle began in late 2015. central banks in other developed markets have also initiated or signaled the end of an extended period of monetary policy easing. the related shifts in capital flows have contributed to increased volatility for both developed and emerging market currencies globally. emerging markets also face differing inflation backdrops and, in some cases, political instability, contributing to unpredictable movements in the value of their exchange rates. this condition was demonstrated by significant devaluations of currency values in turkey and argentina in 2018. in addition to direct impacts on the financial flows of global automotive companies, currency movements can also impact pricing of vehicles exported to overseas markets, most notably in the case of the japanese yen. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. however, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 137 million units exceeded global production by about 42 million units in 2018. in north america and europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 22% and 24%, respectively, in 2018. in china, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 78% of production in 2018, as manufacturers compete to capitalize on china's future market potential. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 47 million units per year during the period from 2019 to 2024. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation has been exacerbated by the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price changes. the price of oil declined since late 2018, driven by reduced expectations for near-term demand growth in china and continued robust supply despite an extended agreement among oil-producing nations to maintain modest output reductions. oil prices are expected to remain volatile, and on a lower long-term trend than in prior cycles. prices for other commodities have been similarly volatile, with some retreat from recent peaks for many commodities used in the manufacturing of our vehicles, while steel and aluminum have seen additional upward pressure related to the imposition of tariffs, which affected domestic prices in 2018 as well. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 140% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. in addition, government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency (e.g., zev mandates and low emission zones) may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in other markets. while we believe the long-term trend will support the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. the imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum coming into the united states in 2018 had a direct negative impact on costs for manufacturers in the u.s. market. in asia pacific, a weak yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers, and, over a period of time, contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. although in recent months interest rates have risen, mature market government bond yields and inflation have remained lower than expected. at the same time, government deficits and debt remain at high levels in many major markets. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2018 company the chart below shows our full year 2018 net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit by segment. net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit were driven by our automotive and ford credit segments. mobility and corporate other, as expected, were losses. the year-over-year decline in net income was primarily due to the lower automotive ebit, the larger mark-to-market adjustment for global pension and opeb plans due to adverse financial market conditions that occurred late in 2018, and personnel separation-related actions in north america, south america, and europe. the lower automotive ebit fully explains the $2.6 billion decline in company adjusted ebit, compared with 2017. ford credit generated a full year 2018 ebt of $2.6 billion, $317 million higher than a year ago, and its best ebt in eight years. ford credit's ebt improvement was led by favorable lease residual performance and favorable volume and mix. this was offset by unfavorable derivatives market valuation. the chart below shows our full year 2018 key metrics for the company compared to a year ago. 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) for full year 2018, revenue grew 2% to $160.3 billion. net income attributable to ford for full year 2018 was $3.7 billion or $0.92 diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock, a decrease of $4.1 billion or $1.01 per share compared with 2017. company adjusted ebit for full year 2018 was $7 billion or $1.30 diluted adjusted earnings per share, down $2.6 billion or $0.48 per share compared with 2017. net income margin was 2.3% and company adjusted ebit margin was 4.4% for full year 2018, down 2.6 percentage points and 1.7 percentage points, respectively, from 2017. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive segment ebit using the causal factors listed below, with net pricing and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors (exclude the impact of unconsolidated affiliate wholesales): volume and mix primarily measures ebit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average contribution margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the ebit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing primarily measures ebit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, special lease offers, and stock adjustments on dealer inventory cost: contribution costs primarily measures ebit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs structural costs primarily measures ebit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing, including volume-related consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), and new product launch expense. these costs could be affected by volume for operating pattern actions such as overtime, line-speed, and shift schedules engineering consists primarily of costs for engineering personnel, prototype materials, testing, and outside engineering services spending-related consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs other includes a variety of items, such as parts and services profits, royalties, government incentives, and compensation-related changes. other also includes: exchange primarily measures ebit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging beginning in 2018, in our discussion of asia pacific ebit, other includes the equity income from our china jvs. in prior periods, the impact of our equity income from our china jvs was spread across each causal factor in addition, definitions and calculations used in this report include: wholesales and revenue wholesale unit volumes include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our china joint venture, jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ), that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue industry volume and market share based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy duty trucks saar seasonally adjusted annual rate 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the chart below shows our full year 2018 automotive segment ebit by region. north america more than explained the automotive segment's full year 2018 profitability. automotive ebit benefited from the largest improvement in market factors since 2015. this benefit was more than offset by commodity and currency headwinds, higher net product costs as we enter a major product refresh cycle, higher warranty costs, and ford-specific challenges in china and europe. compared to 2017, the decline in automotive ebit was essentially due to china and europe. in 2018, we incurred headwinds of about $3.3 billion in four areas. these impacts are not indicative, for the most part, of the ongoing run rate of the business. our full year 2018 results reflect (i) about $750 million in tariff-related effects, (ii) about $1.1 billion of increased commodity cost unrelated to tariff effects, (iii) about $750 million of unfavorable exchange net of pricing, and (iv) about $775 million of cost related to the takata recalls announced last year in north america. about $1.9 billion of the headwinds described above was reflected in north america's full year 2018 ebit, which declined $450 million year over year. this reflects the strong improvements we delivered in north america resulting from the continued focus on high-margin products. south america was affected by about $400 million of these headwinds, which excludes other inflationary effects, yet it delivered a full year ebit improvement of $75 million compared to 2017. asia pacific was affected by about $400 million of the headwinds described above, yet the region delivered a much deeper ebit decline of $1.8 billion compared to 2017 primarily due to lower jv income in china. europe was affected by about $600 million of the headwinds, yet saw a year-over-year ebit decline of $765 million despite the strongest product refresh among all our regions in 2018. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the charts on the following pages provide full year 2018 key metrics and the change in full year 2018 ebit compared with full year 2017 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its regional business units: north america, south america, europe, middle east &amp; africa, and asia pacific (including china). 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) mobility segment our mobility segment primarily includes development costs related to our autonomous vehicles and our investment in mobility through ford smart mobility llc ( fsm ). autonomous vehicles includes self-driving systems development and vehicle integration, autonomous vehicle research and advanced engineering, autonomous vehicle transportation-as-a-service network development, user experience, and business strategy and business development teams. fsm designs and builds mobility services on its own, and collaborates with start-ups and technology companies. the chart below shows the mobility segment's full year 2018 ebit compared with a year ago. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit segment in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's ebt using the causal factors listed below: volume and mix: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average managed receivables at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin) at prior period exchange rates. volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding mix primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by period over period changes in the composition of ford credit's average managed receivables by product and by country or region financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average managed receivables at prior period exchange rates. this calculation is performed at the product and country level and then aggregated. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average managed receivables for the same period financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management credit loss: credit loss is the change in the provision for credit losses at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section of item 7 of part ii of our 2018 form 10-k report lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value (which includes both base and accumulated supplemental depreciation) of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term, and changes in ford credit's estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold. for additional information, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section of item 7 of part ii of our 2018 form 10-k report exchange: reflects changes in ebt driven by the effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, insurance expenses, and other income at prior period exchange rates changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts in general, other income changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates) and other miscellaneous items 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition, the following definitions and calculations apply to ford credit when used in this report: cash (as shown on the funding structure, liquidity sources, and leverage charts) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, excluding amounts related to insurance activities earnings before taxes (ebt ) reflects ford credit's income before income taxes return on equity (roe ) (as shown on the key metrics chart) reflects return on equity calculated by annualizing net income for the period and dividing by monthly average equity for the period securitizations (as shown on the public term funding plan chart) public securitization transactions, rule 144a offerings sponsored by ford credit, and widely distributed offerings by ford credit canada term asset-backed securities (as shown on the funding structure chart) obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements total debt (as shown on the leverage chart) debt on ford credit's balance sheet. includes debt issued in securitizations and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions total net receivables (as shown on the total net receivables reconciliation to managed receivables chart) includes finance receivables (retail and wholesale) sold for legal purposes and net investment in operating leases included in securitization transactions that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. these receivables and operating leases are reported on ford credit's balance sheet and are available only for payment of the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay the other obligations of ford credit or the claims of ford credit's other creditors 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the charts below provide full year 2018 key metrics and the change in full year 2018 ebt compared with full year 2017 by causal factor for the ford credit segment. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) corporate other corporate other primarily includes corporate governance expenses, interest income (excluding interest earned on our extended service contract portfolio that is included in our automotive segment) and portfolio gains and losses from our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and foreign exchange derivatives gains and losses associated with intercompany lending. corporate governance expenses are primarily administrative, delivering benefit on behalf of the global enterprise and are not allocated to specific automotive business units or operating segments. these include expenses related to setting and directing global policy, providing oversight and stewardship, and promoting the company's interests. our full year 2018 corporate other results were a $373 million loss, compared with a $457 million loss a year ago. the year-over-year improvement was driven by higher interest income and net gains on cash equivalents and marketable securities, offset partially by an increase in corporate governance costs. interest on debt interest on debt consists of interest expense on automotive and other debt. full year 2018 interest expense on automotive and other debt was $1.2 billion, $38 million higher than a year ago, reflecting primarily higher foreign debt interest expense. special items in note 24 of the notes to the financial statements, special items are reflected as a separate reconciling item, as opposed to being allocated among the automotive, mobility, and ford credit segments. this reflects the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources. our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows: taxes our provision for income taxes for full year 2018 was $650 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 15.0%. our full year 2018 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 9.7%. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2017 company the chart below shows our full year 2017 net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit by segment. in 2017, net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit were driven by our automotive and ford credit segments. mobility and corporate other, as expected, were losses. company adjusted ebit consisted of automotive ebit of $8.1 billion, a strong ebt of $2.3 billion in the ford credit segment, a loss of $299 million in the mobility segment, and a loss of $457 million in corporate other. ford credit's full year 2017 ebt was $431 million higher than 2016, led primarily by receivables growth, lease residual performance, and financing margin. the improvement in lease residual performance was driven by higher than expected auction values. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the chart below shows our full year 2017 key metrics for the company compared with full year 2016. company revenue for full year 2017 was $156.8 billion, $5 billion higher than 2016. net income attributable to ford for full year 2017 was $7.7 billion or $1.93 diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock, an increase of $3.1 billion or $0.78 per share compared with 2016, due to the significantly lower remeasurement loss on pension and opeb plans and favorable tax planning actions. company adjusted ebit for full year 2017 was $9.6 billion, a decrease of $1.7 billion from 2016, more than explained by north america and europe. our diluted adjusted earnings per share of common and class b stock was $1.78, up $0.02 per share compared with 2016 due to favorable tax planning actions. net income margin was 4.9% and company adjusted ebit margin was 6.1% for full year 2017, up 1.9 percentage points and down 1.4 percentage points, respectively, from 2016. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment the chart below shows our full year 2017 automotive segment ebit by region. full year 2017 automotive ebit was driven by north america. in total, our automotive operations outside north america were slightly profitable and $641 million lower than in 2016 driven largely by expected brexit effects in europe. the $2 billion year-over-year decline in full year 2017 automotive segment ebit was primarily explained by higher commodities and adverse exchange. all other factors about offset. higher commodities were driven by metals, primarily steel, and adverse exchange was driven by the sterling, reflecting brexit effects of about $600 million, along with the canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, and argentine peso. favorable market factors were driven by improved mix in all regions, excluding south america, and higher net pricing in all regions, except asia pacific, reflecting negative industry pricing in china. north america's full year 2017 ebit was $1.3 billion lower than 2016. the decrease was driven by higher commodities, mainly steel and other metals; expedition/navigator launch effects, reflecting lower volume and higher costs, both product and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing; and adverse exchange driven primarily by the canadian dollar. south america's full year 2017 ebit improved $324 million compared to 2016 due to higher industry volume and favorable net pricing. this was partially offset by unfavorable cost performance due to the effects of high inflation and higher product costs net of efficiencies, driven by the all-new ecosport. europe's full year 2017 ebit was $951 million lower than in 2016 driven by brexit effects, reflecting the weaker sterling and lower u.k. industry, offset partially by favorable net pricing in the united kingdom; higher commodities, mainly steel and other metals; fiesta launch effects, reflecting lower volume and higher costs, both product and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing; and higher warranty costs. middle east &amp; africa's full year 2017 ebit improved $39 million compared to 2016. favorable cost performance and exchange, reflecting the stronger south african rand and euro, offset lower volume. asia pacific's full year 2017 ebit was $53 million lower than in 2016 due to market performance in china and unfavorable exchange. 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) mobility segment the chart below shows the mobility segment's full year 2017 ebit compared with full year 2016. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit segment the charts below provide full year 2017 key metrics and the change in full year 2017 ebt compared with full year 2016 by causal factor for the ford credit segment. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) corporate other our full year 2017 corporate other results were a $457 million loss, a $41 million lower loss compared with 2016. this year-over-year improvement was driven by higher interest income, offset partially by higher corporate governance expenses. interest on debt our full year 2017 interest expense on automotive and other debt was $1.2 billion, $239 million higher than in 2016, reflecting primarily higher average u.s. and foreign debt balances. special items our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows: taxes our provision for income taxes for full year 2017 was $402 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 4.9%, both lower than 2016, reflecting benefits for foreign tax credits expected to be realized in the foreseeable future, non-u.s. restructuring, and the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017. our full year 2017 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 15.4%, reflecting the same benefits from foreign tax credits mentioned above. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2018, total balance sheet cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash (including ford credit) was $34.1 billion. we analyze our balance sheet on a company basis which excludes ford credit. the key balance sheet metrics that we consider are: (i) company cash, which includes cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash, excluding ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash; and (ii) company liquidity, which includes company cash, less restricted cash, and total available committed credit lines. company excluding ford credit liquidity . one of our key priorities is to maintain a strong balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to invest in and grow our business. based on our planning assumptions, we believe we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products and services, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a regular dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. at december 31, 2018, we had $23.1 billion of company cash, with 90% held by consolidated entities domiciled in the united states. to be prepared for an economic downturn, we target to have an ongoing company cash balance at or above $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to: (i) future cash flow expectations, such as for investments in future opportunities, capital investments, debt maturities, pension contributions, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. our company cash investments primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, investment-grade corporate securities, investment-grade commercial paper, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments is approximately one year and adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our company cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition to our target for company cash, we also target to maintain a corporate credit facility, discussed below, for our automotive business of about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. we assess the appropriate long-term target for total company liquidity, which includes company cash and the automotive portion of the corporate credit facility, to be at or above $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. at december 31, 2018, we had $34.2 billion of company liquidity. we may reduce our company cash and liquidity targets over time, based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. changes in company cash. in 2018, we began reporting company adjusted operating cash flow, which includes automotive, mobility, corporate other, and interest on debt cash flows, as well as ford credit distributions. prior to 2018, ford credit distributions were reported as a non-operating cash flow. in managing our business, we classify changes in company cash into operating and other items. operating items include: company adjusted ebit excluding ford credit, capital spending, depreciation and tooling amortization, changes in working capital, ford credit distributions, and all other and timing differences. non-operating items include: separation payments, other transactions with ford credit, acquisitions and divestitures, changes in automotive and other debt, contributions to funded pension plans, and shareholder distributions. with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive segment trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs shortly after being produced. in addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. in 2018, our cash flow was lower than 2017 primarily driven by lower ebit. in 2019, we expect improved cash flow versus 2018. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) changes in company cash excluding ford credit are summarized below: capital spending was $7.7 billion in 2018 and is projected to be about the same in 2019. as we redesign our business, the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, and infrastructure is expected to be about $7 billion annually through 2022. full year 2018 working capital was about $900 million negative, reflecting primarily higher inventory. all other and timing differences were negative $1.1 billion, reflecting primarily interest payments on automotive and other debt, cash taxes, and assorted timing differences. shareholder distributions were about $3.1 billion in 2018. at december 31, 2018, our cash conversion rate was 409%, and our adjusted cash conversion rate was 40%. available credit lines . total committed company credit lines excluding ford credit at december 31, 2018 were $11.9 billion, consisting of $10.4 billion of our corporate credit facility and $1.5 billion of local credit facilities. at december 31, 2018, the utilized portion of the corporate credit facility was $27 million, representing amounts utilized for letters of credit. at december 31, 2018, the utilized portion of the local credit facilities was $735 million. lenders under our corporate credit facility have commitments to us totaling $13.4 billion, with 75% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2023 and 25% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2021. we have allocated $3 billion of commitments to ford credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its liquidity. we would guarantee any borrowings by ford credit under the corporate credit facility. the corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed-charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p, the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) debt. as shown in note 18 of the notes to the financial statements, at december 31, 2018, company debt excluding ford credit was $14.1 billion, including automotive debt of $13.5 billion. both balances were about $2.4 billion lower than at december 31, 2017, reflecting primarily foreign and u.s. debt repayments and exchange. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding the atvm loan. leverage. we manage company debt (excluding ford credit) levels with a leverage framework to maintain investment grade credit ratings through a normal business cycle. the leverage framework includes a ratio of total company debt (excluding ford credit) adjusted to include unamortized discount/premium and issuance costs (excluding ford credit), operating lease minimum commitments and net pension liabilities excluding prepaid assets, divided by company adjusted ebit, excluding ford credit ebt, and further adjusted to include depreciation and tooling amortization (excluding ford credit), operating lease expense, and certain pension costs. at december 31, 2018, our ratio of company debt to net income attributable to ford was 41.9:1, and our ratio of adjusted debt to ebitda was 3.2:1. ford credit's leverage is calculated as a separate business as described in the liquidity - ford credit segment section of item 2. ford credit is self-funding and its debt, which is used to fund its operations, is separate from our automotive and other debt. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit segment funding overview. ford credit's primary funding objective is to be well capitalized with a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit's liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. ford credit annually stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it continues to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). ford credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of demand notes under its ford interest advantage program, through its retail deposit program at fce bank plc ( fce ), and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states and other international markets. at december 31, 2018, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, and fce deposits was $6 billion. at december 31, 2018, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was $4 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations. funding portfolio. the chart below shows the trends in funding for ford credit's managed receivables: managed receivables of $155 billion as of december 31, 2018 were funded primarily with term debt and term asset-backed securities. securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables was 39%. ford credit targets a mix of securitized funding between 35% and 40%. the calendarization of the funding plan will result in quarterly fluctuations of the securitized funding percentage. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) public term funding plan. the chart below shows ford credit's issuances for full-year 2016, 2017, and 2018, and its planned issuances for full-year 2019, excluding short-term funding programs: ford credit's total unsecured public term funding plan is categorized by currency of issuance. in 2018, ford credit completed $27 billion of public term funding. for 2019, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $27 billion to $33 billion. ford credit plans to continue issuing its eurocurrency-denominated (e.g., euro and sterling) public unsecured debt from the united states. through february 15, 2019, ford credit has completed $4 billion of public term issuances. 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity. the chart below shows ford credit's liquidity sources and utilization: ford credit's liquidity available for use will fluctuate quarterly based on factors including near-term debt maturities, receivable growth, and timing of funding transactions. ford credit targets liquidity of about $25 billion. at december 31, 2018, ford credit's liquidity available for use was $27.3 billion, $2.2 billion lower than year-end 2017. ford credit's sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset-backed facilities, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate credit facility allocation. ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. ford credit ensures its cumulative debt maturities have a longer tenor than its cumulative asset maturities. this positive maturity profile is intended to provide ford credit with additional liquidity after all of its assets have been funded. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. the chart below shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage and managed leverage: ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding amounts related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2018, ford credit's financial statement leverage was 9.4:1, and managed leverage was 8.8:1. ford credit targets managed leverage in the range of 8:1 to 9:1. 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total company pension plan contributions and strategy. our strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. we have made significant progress in implementing this strategy over the last several years. for example, we have limited liability growth by closing our funded plans to new participants and have reduced plan deficits through discretionary contributions. going forward, we expect to: limit our pension contributions to offset ongoing service cost or meet regulatory requirements, if any; continue progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and evaluate strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as plan design changes, curtailments, or settlements worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $6.3 billion at december 31, 2018, an improvement of $300 million from december 31, 2017, primarily as a result of higher discount rates, demographics, and contributions offsetting lower asset returns. of the $6.3 billion underfunded status at year-end 2018, about $6 billion is associated with our unfunded plans. these are pay as you go, with benefits paid from general company cash. these unfunded plans primarily include certain plans in germany, and u.s. defined benefit plans for senior management. the u.s. weighted-average discount rate increased 69 basis points to 4.29% at year-end 2018 from 3.60% at year-end 2017. the non-u.s. weighted average discount rate increased 15 basis points to 2.48% at year-end 2018 from 2.33% at year-end 2017. asset returns in 2018 for our u.s. plans were negative 3.7%, reflecting fixed income losses as long-term interest rates increased. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2018 was 78%, two percentage points higher than year-end 2017. asset returns for our non-u.s. plans were negative 0.1%, reflecting varied results by market. the fixed income mix in our non-u.s. plans at year-end 2018 was 83%, three percentage points higher than year-end 2017. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2018, we contributed about $400 million (most of which were mandatory contributions) to our global funded pension plans, a decrease of about $1 billion compared with 2017. the contributions in 2017 included a pull-ahead of about $500 million of 2018 planned funding into the fourth quarter of 2017 to achieve a cash tax benefit. during 2019, we expect to contribute about $650 million (including $140 million in discretionary contributions in the united states) from company cash to our global funded pension plans. we also expect to make about $350 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of about $1 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. plans in 2019. after 2019, we expect contributions to our global funded plans of about $500 million to $650 million per year, limited to ongoing service cost. our global funded plans are now fully funded in aggregate, which is an important milestone demonstrating the effectiveness of our de-risking strategy and our commitment to a strong balance sheet. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements. return on invested capital. we analyze total company performance using an adjusted return on invested capital ( roic ) financial metric based on an after-tax rolling five-year average, which we believe is appropriate given our industry's product and investment cycles. the following table contains the calculation of our roic for the years shown: 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit ratings our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs, fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p. in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. there have been no rating actions taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2018. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb bbb stable bbb r-2m stable bbb (low) fitch bbb bbb stable bbb f2 stable bbb- moody's n/a baa3 negative baa3 p-3 negative baa3 s&amp;p bbb bbb negative bbb a-2 negative bbb- 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2019 external factors assumptions based on the current environment, we have assumed the following for 2019: for 2019 gdp, we project continued growth globally and across our major markets. relative to 2018, we expect a deterioration in the rate of growth in the united states, europe, and china, but we do not expect a recession to occur in the united states during the year. we expect global industry volume in 2019 to be about flat compared with 2018. this includes a decline in the united states, although industry sales will still be strong on an absolute basis, with retail down slightly and fleet down more (mainly rentals). we expect europe industry volume to be about flat, and, in china, we expect industry volume to be down modestly with a strong second half of the year. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook based on our current assumptions, our company guidance for 2019 includes the following: for 2019, we see the potential for year-over-year improvement in the key metrics shown above, including our revenue to be greater than $160.3 billion, adjusted ebit margin to be greater than 4.4%, adjusted roic to be greater than 7.1%, adjusted cash conversion to be greater than 40%, and adjusted debt to ebitda to be lower than 3.2:1. we also expect company adjusted operating cash flow to be stronger and automotive ebit to improve. from a business unit perspective, we expect north america, china, and europe, where results were lower in 2018, to lead the potential ebit improvement. drivers of this would be the favorable effects of new products, fitness initiatives as they gain greater traction, and a turnaround, at least in part, of the major factors that led to our lower china performance in 2018. offsetting these positive effects, in part, will be higher investments in mobility both for our autonomous vehicle business and mobility services development as well as lower, though still strong, ebt at ford credit, reflecting lower volume and financing margin and higher operating costs. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) cautionary note on forward-looking statements statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions; industry sales volume, particularly in the united states, europe, or china, can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event; ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance; ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states; ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results; with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including brexit; ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors; ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints; pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition; economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed; ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations that may change in the future; ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback; operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents; ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; ford credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; and ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) non-gaap financial measure reconciliations the following charts show our non-gaap financial measure reconciliations for: adjusted ebit, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted operating cash flow, adjusted cash conversion, adjusted debt to ebitda, and ford credit managed receivables. the gaap reconciliation for ford credit managed leverage can be found in the ford credit segment section of liquidity and capital resources. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2018 supplemental financial information the tables below provide supplemental consolidating financial information and other financial information. company excluding ford credit includes our automotive and mobility reportable segments, corporate other, interest on debt, and special items. eliminations, where presented, primarily represent eliminations of intersegment transactions and deferred tax netting. selected income statement information. the following table provides supplemental income statement information (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2018 company excluding ford credit automotive mobility other (a) subtotal ford credit consolidated revenues $ 148,294 $ 26 $ $ 148,320 $ 12,018 $ 160,338 total costs and expenses 145,691 758 1,223 147,672 9,463 157,135 interest expense on automotive debt 1,171 1,171 1,171 interest expense on other debt 57 57 57 other income/(loss), net 2,724 58 (579 ) 2,203 44 2,247 equity in net income of affiliated companies 95 95 28 123 income/(loss) before income taxes 5,422 (674 ) (3,030 ) 1,718 2,627 4,345 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 705 (162 ) (296 ) 247 403 650 net income/(loss) 4,717 (512 ) (2,734 ) 1,471 2,224 3,695 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 18 18 18 net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 4,699 $ (512 ) $ (2,734 ) $ 1,453 $ 2,224 $ 3,677 (a) other includes corporate other, interest on debt, and special items 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected balance sheet information. the following tables provide supplemental balance sheet information (in millions): december 31, 2018 assets company excluding ford credit ford credit eliminations consolidated cash and cash equivalents $ 7,111 $ 9,607 $ $ 16,718 marketable securities 15,925 1,308 17,233 ford credit finance receivables, net 54,353 54,353 trade and other receivables, less allowances 3,698 7,497 11,195 inventories 11,220 11,220 other assets 2,567 1,363 3,930 receivable from other segments 1,054 2,470 (3,524 ) total current assets 41,575 76,598 (3,524 ) 114,649 ford credit finance receivables, net 55,544 55,544 net investment in operating leases 1,705 27,414 29,119 net property 35,986 192 36,178 equity in net assets of affiliated companies 2,595 114 2,709 deferred income taxes 12,293 216 (2,097 ) 10,412 other assets 6,343 1,586 7,929 receivable from other segments 166 14 (180 ) total assets $ 100,663 $ 161,678 $ (5,801 ) $ 256,540 liabilities payables $ 20,426 $ 1,094 $ $ 21,520 other liabilities and deferred revenue 18,868 1,688 20,556 automotive debt payable within one year 2,314 2,314 ford credit debt payable within one year 51,179 51,179 payable to other segments 3,524 (3,524 ) total current liabilities 45,132 53,961 (3,524 ) 95,569 other liabilities and deferred revenue 22,491 1,097 23,588 automotive long-term debt 11,233 11,233 ford credit long-term debt 88,887 88,887 other long-term debt 600 600 deferred income taxes 99 2,595 (2,097 ) 597 payable to other segments 17 163 (180 ) total liabilities $ 79,572 $ 146,703 $ (5,801 ) $ 220,474 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected cash flow information. the following tables provide supplemental cash flow information (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2018 cash flows from operating activities company excluding ford credit ford credit eliminations consolidated net income $ 1,471 $ 2,224 $ $ 3,695 depreciation and tooling amortization 5,384 3,896 9,280 other amortization 100 (1,072 ) (972 ) provision for credit and insurance losses 609 609 pension and opeb expense/(income) 400 400 equity investment (earnings)/losses in excess of dividends received 231 (25 ) 206 foreign currency adjustments 528 1 529 net (gain)/loss on changes in investments in affiliates (39 ) (3 ) (42 ) stock compensation 183 8 191 net change in wholesale and other receivables (2,408 ) (2,408 ) provision for deferred income taxes 573 (770 ) (197 ) decrease/(increase) in intersegment receivables/payables (558 ) 558 decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable and other assets (1,999 ) (240 ) (2,239 ) decrease/(increase) in inventory (828 ) (828 ) increase/(decrease) in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities 6,521 260 6,781 other 89 (72 ) 17 interest supplements and residual value support to ford credit (5,205 ) 5,205 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities $ 6,851 $ 8,171 $ $ 15,022 cash flows from investing activities capital spending $ (7,737 ) $ (48 ) $ $ (7,785 ) acquisitions of finance receivables and operating leases (62,924 ) (62,924 ) collections of finance receivables and operating leases 50,880 50,880 purchases of marketable and other securities (13,508 ) (3,632 ) (17,140 ) sales and maturities of marketable and other securities 15,356 5,171 20,527 settlements of derivatives 132 226 358 other (174 ) (3 ) (177 ) investing activity (to)/from other segments 2,711 154 (2,865 ) net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities $ (3,220 ) $ (10,176 ) $ (2,865 ) $ (16,261 ) cash flows from financing activities cash dividends $ (2,905 ) $ $ $ (2,905 ) purchases of common stock (164 ) (164 ) net changes in short-term debt (543 ) (2,276 ) (2,819 ) proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 176 49,954 50,130 principal payments on long-term debt (1,642 ) (42,530 ) (44,172 ) other (42 ) (150 ) (192 ) financing activity to/(from) other segments (154 ) (2,711 ) 2,865 net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities $ (5,274 ) $ 2,287 $ 2,865 $ (122 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (153 ) $ (217 ) $ $ (370 ) 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected other information. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2017 were $142.8 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion compared with 2016. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2018 were $147.7 billion, an increase of $4.8 billion compared with 2017. the detail for the changes is shown below (in billions): 2017 lower/(higher) 2016 2018 lower/(higher) 2017 volume and mix, exchange, and other $ (3.9 ) $ (0.5 ) contribution costs material excluding commodities (0.1 ) (0.8 ) commodities (1.2 ) (1.6 ) warranty 0.1 (1.1 ) freight and other (0.4 ) structural costs (0.7 ) (0.4 ) special items 0.1 total $ (5.7 ) $ (4.8 ) equity. at december 31, 2017, total equity attributable to ford was $35.6 billion, an increase of $5.8 billion compared with december 31, 2016. at december 31, 2018, total equity attributable to ford was $35.9 billion, an increase of about $400 million compared with december 31, 2017. the detail for the changes is shown below (in billions): 2017 vs 2016 increase/ (decrease) 2018 vs 2017 increase/ (decrease) net income $ 7.7 $ 3.7 shareholder distributions (2.7 ) (3.1 ) other comprehensive income (0.4 ) adoption of accounting standards 0.6 common stock issued (including share-based compensation impacts) 0.2 0.2 total $ 5.8 $ 0.4 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and field service actions nature of estimates required. we provide warranties on the products we sell. separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. we accrue the estimated cost of both basic warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. assumptions and approach used. we establish estimates for warranty and field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty and field service obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on this data, we revise our estimates as necessary. warranty coverages vary; therefore, our warranty accruals vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale for specific periods of time and/or mileage. field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the basic warranty coverage period. our best estimate of the obligation related to field service actions includes expected future payments. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve to determine the year-end obligations. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return considers various sources, primarily inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by plan. historical returns also are considered where appropriate. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. assumptions are set at each year-end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2018 weighted average discount rate was 4.29% for u.s. plans and 2.48% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting increases of 69 and 15 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2017. in 2018, the u.s. actual return on assets was negative 3.7%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.75%. non-u.s. actual return on assets was negative 0.1%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 4.51%. in total, these differences, in addition to demographic and other updates, resulted in a net loss of $1.2 billion which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. for 2019, the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.75% for u.s. plans, unchanged from 2018, and 4.18% for non-u.s. plans, down about 33 basis points compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting an increased allocation to fixed income assets and a lower consensus on capital market return expectations from advisors. de-risking strategy . we employ a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. as we continue to de-risk our plans and increase the allocation to fixed income investments over time, our funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will continue to be reduced. changes in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2018 pension funded status and 2019 expense are affected by year-end 2018 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our obligations and fixed income assets. the table below estimates the impact on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis point change increase/(decrease) in december 31, 2018 funded status factor u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps $4,250/$(5,150) $4,450/$(5,800) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (4,100)/4,950 (2,900)/3,750 net impact on funded status $150/$(200) $1,550/$(2,050) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., changes in credit spreads, bond coupon and active management excess returns), and growth asset returns. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) interest rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year-end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the table below estimates the impact on pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions): basis point change increase/(decrease) in december 31, 2018 funded status factor u.s. plans non-u.s. plans interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 bps $30/$(30) $15/$(15) expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 25 (100)/100 (70)/70 the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for worldwide opeb plans at december 31, 2017 was 3.61%, compared with 4.08% at december 31, 2018, resulting in a worldwide gain of about $366 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. sensitivity analysis. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our opeb obligation and expense. the table below estimates the impact on 2019 opeb expense of higher/lower assumptions for these factors (in millions): worldwide opeb basis point change (increase)/decrease 2018 ye obligation increase/(decrease) 2019 expense factor discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps $600/$(700) n/a interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 n/a $5/$(5) income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. gaap requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $973 million is required, primarily related to deferred tax assets in various non-u.s. operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $9.8 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets and concluded that no valuation allowance is required for these assets. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements. 83 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets nature of estimates required - goodwill. goodwill is subject to periodic assessments of impairment. we test goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the asset may be impaired. we assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. if a qualitative assessment indicates an impairment or we impair the assets of a reporting unit, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed. if the carrying value of the reporting unit is above fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. nature of estimates required - long-lived assets. we test our long-lived asset groups when changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. events that trigger a test for recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and expenses, significant underperformance relative to historical and projected future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic trends or when there is a change in the asset grouping. when a triggering event occurs, we measure recoverability using our internal assumptions, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset group. if the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the asset group's fair value is measured relying primarily on a discounted cash flow method. an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. a test for recoverability also is performed when management has committed to a plan to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset group and the plan is expected to be completed within a year. when an impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over their remaining useful life. assumptions and approach used - goodwill and long-lived assets. we measure the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold to a third party) when available. when market prices are not available, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit or asset group using the income approach and/or the market approach. the income approach uses cash flow projections. inherent in our development of cash flow projections are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our operating results, business plan forecasts, expected growth rates, and cost of capital, similar to those a market participant would use to assess fair value. we also make certain assumptions about future economic conditions and other data. many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates may change in future periods. changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the fair value measurement of a reporting unit or asset group, and therefore can affect the test results. the following are key assumptions we use in making cash flow projections: business projections. we make assumptions about the demand for our products in the marketplace. these assumptions drive our planning assumptions for volume, mix, and pricing. we also make assumptions about our cost levels (e.g., capacity utilization, cost performance, etc.). these projections are derived using our internal business plan forecasts that are updated at least annually and reviewed by our board of directors. long-term growth rate. a growth rate is used to calculate the terminal value of the business and is added to the present value of the debt-free interim cash flows. the growth rate is the expected rate at which a business unit's earnings stream is projected to grow beyond the planning period. discount rate. when measuring possible impairment, future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that we anticipate a potential market participant would use. weighted-average cost of capital is an estimate of the overall risk-adjusted pre-tax rate of return expected by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. economic projections. assumptions regarding general economic conditions are included in and affect our assumptions regarding industry sales and pricing estimates for our vehicles. these macro-economic assumptions include, but are not limited to, industry sales volumes, inflation, interest rates, prices of raw materials (i.e., commodities), and foreign currency exchange rates. the market approach is another method for measuring the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group. this approach relies on the market value (i.e., market capitalization) of companies that are engaged in the same or similar line of business. in addition, to the extent available we will also consider third-party valuations of our long-lived assets that were prepared for other business purposes. 84 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) goodwill related to our emerging businesses is assessed based on each entity's performance compared to metrics established at the time the entity was purchased. in our mobility segment, goodwill in our chariot subsidiary of $40 million was fully impaired during the fourth quarter of 2018 as a result of the decision to cease operations. during 2018, we embarked on a comprehensive strategy aimed at strengthening the competitive position and profitability of our operations. as part of this process, we are accelerating several key fitness actions aimed at reducing structural costs while at the same time consulting with our key stakeholders and partners with regard to a fundamental redesign of our operations. this redesign will include changes to the company's vehicle portfolio, expanding offerings and volumes in its most profitable growth vehicle segments, while improving or exiting less profitable vehicle lines and addressing underperforming markets. against this backdrop, we determined that there were triggering events related to our ford asia pacific, china, europe, and south america business units and tested our long-lived assets for impairment. using our internal economic and business projections, as well as third-party valuations of certain long-lived assets, we determined that the carrying value of the long-lived assets in these business units was recoverable at december 31, 2018. if in future quarters our economic or business projections were to change as a result of our plans or changes in the business environment, or if there was a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used, we would undertake additional testing, as appropriate, which could result in an impairment of long-lived assets. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses represents ford credit ' estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date. the adequacy of ford credit's allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 11 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables and on operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. the models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit ' present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. therefore, ford credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit's allowance for credit losses is based on its assumptions regarding: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period ( lep ), measured as repossessions; repossession ratio reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time divided by the average number of contracts outstanding; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle. collective allowance for credit losses. the collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to- receivables ( ltr ) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. the ltr model is based on the most recent years of history. an ltr for each product is calculated by dividing credit losses (i.e., charge-offs net of recoveries) by average net finance receivables or average net investment in operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). the average ltr that is calculated for each product is multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product. 85 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. the loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail or lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to ford credit's active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred. the lep is an assumption within ford credit's models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. this time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. it is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. the lep is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. for accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. specific allowance for impaired receivables . consumer receivables involved in troubled debt restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the contract's original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions): assumption basis point change increase/(decrease) frequency - repossession ratio +/- 10 bps $36/$(36) loss severity per unit +/- 100 4/(4) non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical ltr ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral. collective allowance for credit losses. ford credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using an ltr model for each financing product based on historical experience. this ltr is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables ltr approach. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. specific allowance for impaired receivables. dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). the loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the ford credit interest, operating, and other expenses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within ford credit finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. 86 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the impact of the change in assumptions on future auction values and return volumes would increase or decrease accumulated supplemental depreciation and depreciation expense over the remaining terms of the operating leases. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions): assumption basis point change increase/(decrease) future auction values +/- 100 bps $(128)/$128 return volumes +/- 100 18/(18) adjustments to the amount of accumulated supplemental depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in ford credit interest, operating, and other expenses. 87 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accounting standards issued but not yet adopted the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has issued the following accounting standards updates ( asu ). asu 2016-02 and asu 2016-13 are expected to have a material impact to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures. for additional information, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. asu effective date (a) 2018-16 inclusion of the secured overnight financing rate (sofr) overnight index swap (ois) rate as a benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes january 1, 2019 2018-08 clarifying the scope and the accounting guidance for contributions received and contributions made january 1, 2019 2018-07 improvements to nonemployee share-based payment accounting january 1, 2019 2018-02 reclassification of certain tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income january 1, 2019 2016-02 leases january 1, 2019 (b) 2018-18 clarifying the interaction between collaborative arrangements and revenue from contracts with customers january 1, 2020 2018-17 targeted improvements to related party guidance for variable interest entities january 1, 2020 2018-15 customer's accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract january 1, 2020 2018-13 fair value measurement - changes to the disclosure requirement for fair value measurement january 1, 2020 2016-13 credit losses - measurement of credit losses on financial instruments january 1, 2020 2018-14 changes to the disclosure requirements for defined benefits plans january 1, 2021 2018-12 targeted improvements to the accounting for long duration contracts january 1, 2021 _________ (a) early adoption for each of the standards is permitted. (b) the fasb has issued the following updates to the leases standard: asu 2018-01 (land easement practical expedient for transition to leases), asu 2018-11 (targeted improvements to leases), and asu 2018-20 (narrow-scope improvements for lessors). we will adopt the new leases standard effective january 1, 2019. 88 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our ford credit segment. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2018 (in millions): payments due by period 2019 2020 - 2021 2022 - 2023 thereafter total company excluding ford credit on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) $ 1,626 $ 1,927 $ 740 $ 9,395 $ 13,688 interest payments relating to long-term debt 721 1,304 1,155 7,420 10,600 capital leases (b) 95 48 22 7 172 pension funding (c) 261 374 378 1,013 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,357 1,411 682 570 4,020 operating leases 343 438 226 403 1,410 total company excluding ford credit 4,403 5,502 3,203 17,795 30,903 ford credit on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) 36,503 57,230 21,320 10,703 125,756 interest payments relating to long-term debt 3,189 3,775 1,438 814 9,216 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 32 44 29 3 108 operating leases 20 26 21 34 101 total ford credit 39,744 61,075 22,808 11,554 135,181 total company $ 44,147 $ 66,577 $ 26,011 $ 29,349 $ 166,084 __________ (a) excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, unamortized debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments. (b) includes interest payments of $11 million. (c) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to u.k. and ford-werke plans. see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for further information regarding our expected 2019 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2018 of $2 billion (see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and opeb obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 14 , 17 , and 18 , respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 89 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and ford credit segments differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and the committee includes our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and ford credit segments are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps, and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive and ford credit segments are discussed and quantified below. automotive market risk our automotive segment frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the production of our vehicles and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in certain foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 90 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk), as of december 31, 2017, was a liability of $22 million compared with an asset of $363 million as of december 31, 2018. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been $2.8 billion at december 31, 2017, compared with $2.5 billion at december 31, 2018. the sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies. in reality, foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure. see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of certain commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts). the extent to which we hedge is also impacted by our ability to achieve designated hedge accounting. the net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2017 was an asset of $33 million compared with a liability of $62 million as of december 31, 2018. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices, in u.s. dollar terms, would be $69 million at december 31, 2017, compared with $90 million at december 31, 2018. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc, as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the loss we could incur in our automotive segment investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2017, we had $26.5 billion in our automotive segment investment portfolios, compared to $23 billion at december 31, 2018. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our automotive cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $270 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2017. this compares to $205 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2018. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. 91 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk market risk for ford credit is the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value. interest rate risk . generally, ford credit's assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured and securitized debt. ford credit's term debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a parallel shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more assets than debt and liabilities to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on ford credit's assets will increase more than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially increasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially decrease. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. pre-tax cash flow sensitivity at december 31 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity 2017 2018 one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates $ 14 $ 51 one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (a) (14 ) (51 ) _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. 92 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros, sterling, and renminbi. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure, relating to changes in currency exchange rates at december 31, 2018, is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments at december 31, 2017 was an asset of $625 million, compared to an asset of $7 million at december 31, 2018. counterparty risk counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance, which is calculated from counterparty credit ratings and market-based credit default ( cds ) spreads. the exposure limits are lower for smaller and lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer dated exposures. our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for minimum counterparty long-term ratings.risk factors. we have listed below the most significant risk factors applicable to us grouped into the following categories: operational risks; macroeconomic, market, and strategic risks; financial risks; and legal and regulatory risks. operational risks ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of global redesign and fitness actions. we previously announced plans for our global redesign and fitness actions to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability. in addition, to further improve our fitness and overall competitiveness, we are attempting to leverage relationships with third parties, including various alliances and joint ventures as discussed below under ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies . if our global redesign actions are not successful or are delayed for reasons outside of our control, particularly in europe and south america, or our fitness actions are not successful, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the cost of recall and customer satisfaction actions to remedy defects in vehicles that have been sold could be substantial, particularly if the actions relate to global platforms or involve defects that are identified years after production (e.g., takata airbag inflators). such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers, and our ability to recover from the suppliers may be limited by the suppliers' financial condition. we accrue the estimated cost of both base warranty coverages and field service actions at the time a vehicle is sold, and we reevaluate the adequacy of our accruals on a regular basis. in addition, from time to time, we issue extended warranties at our expense, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the time of issuance. for additional information regarding warranty and field service action costs, including our process for establishing our reserves, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. if warranty costs are greater than anticipated as a result of increased vehicle and component complexity, the adoption of new technologies, or otherwise, such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, launch delays, recall actions, and increased warranty costs could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed below under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance . 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies. we have invested in, formed strategic alliances with, and announced or formed joint ventures with a number of companies, and we may expand those relationships or enter into similar relationships with additional companies. these initiatives typically involve enormous complexity and we may not be able to complete anticipated alliance or joint venture transactions, the anticipated benefits of these transactions may not be realized, or the benefits may be delayed. for example, we may not successfully integrate an alliance or joint venture with our operations, including the implementation of our controls, systems, procedures, and policies, or unforeseen expenses or liabilities may arise that were not discovered during due diligence prior to an investment or entry into a strategic alliance, or a misalignment of interests may develop between us and the other party. further, to the extent we share ownership, control, or management with another party in a joint venture, our ability to influence the joint venture may be limited, and we may be unable to prevent misconduct or implement our compliance or internal control systems. in addition, implementation of a new business strategy may lead to the disruption of our existing business operations, including distracting management from current operations. results of operations from new activities may be lower than our existing activities, and, if a strategy is unsuccessful, we may not recoup our investments in that strategy. failure to successfully and timely realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions or strategies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by suppliers, to process, transmit, and store electronic information that is important to the operation of our business and our vehicles. despite security measures, we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and compromises of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise the privacy of personal information of consumers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; affect the performance of in-vehicle systems; and/or impact the safety of our vehicles. the cyber risk exposure rises as we continue to develop and produce vehicles with increased connectivity. we, our suppliers, and our dealers have been the target of cyber attacks in the past, and such attacks will continue to evolve in the future, which may cause cyber incidents to be more difficult to detect for periods of time. our networks and in-vehicle systems, sharing similar architectures, could also be impacted by the negligence or misconduct of insiders or third parties who have access to our networks and systems. we continually employ capabilities, processes, and other security measures designed to reduce and mitigate the risk of cyber attacks; however, such preventative measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be sufficient in all circumstances or mitigate all potential risks. moreover, a cyber incident could harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation, and a cyber incident involving us or one of our suppliers could impact production. ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor issues, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors. a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford's or its suppliers' facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of labor issues, including disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, absenteeism, public health issues, or in response to potential restructuring actions (e.g., plant closures); as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints, quality issues, or other difficulties; as a result of a natural disaster (including climate-related physical risk); or for other reasons. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and, therefore, cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). such single-source suppliers also could threaten to disrupt our production as leverage in negotiations. in addition, when we undertake a model changeover, significant downtime at one or more of our production facilities may be required, and our ability to return to full production may be delayed if we experience production difficulties at one of our facilities or a supplier's facility. moreover, as vehicles, components, and their integration become more complex, we may face an increased risk of a delay in production of new vehicles. a significant disruption to our production schedule could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. ford's ability to attract and retain talented, diverse, and highly skilled employees is critical to its success and competitiveness. our success depends on our ability to continue to recruit and retain talented and diverse employees who are highly skilled in engineering, software, and technology, among other areas. competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of existing employees or our inability to recruit new employees, particularly with the introduction of new technologies, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business. macroeconomic, market, and strategic risks ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace and we may not be able to accurately predict trends or the success of new products or services in the market. it takes years to design and develop a new vehicle or change an existing vehicle. because customers' preferences may change quickly, our new and existing products may not generate sales in sufficient quantities and at costs low enough to be profitable. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if we are unable to differentiate our products from those of our competitors or sufficiently tailor our products to customers in markets like china, there could be insufficient demand for our products, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of mobility and electrification depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of autonomous vehicles and mobility services. the automotive and mobility businesses are very competitive, and rapid changes to our industry, including the introduction of new types of competitors that may possess technological innovations, increase the importance that we are able to anticipate, develop, and deliver products and services that customers desire on a timely basis and at costs low enough to be profitable. if the propulsion choices (such as electrified vehicles) or autonomous vehicles and services we offer do not gain market acceptance or at the rate we expect, there could be an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. moreover, new offerings may present technological challenges that could be costly to implement and overcome and may subject us to customer claims if they do not operate as anticipated. in addition, since new technologies are subject to market acceptance, a malfunction involving any manufacturer's autonomous vehicle may negatively impact the perception of autonomous vehicles and erode customer trust. ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and utilities) at levels beyond our current planning assumption, whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons, could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and brexit. with the increasing interconnectedness of the global economy, a financial crisis, economic downturn or recession, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. changes in international trade policy can also have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. for example, steps taken by the u.s. government to apply or consider applying tariffs on automobiles, parts, and other products and materials have the potential to disrupt existing supply chains, impose additional costs on our business, affect the demand for our products, and make us less competitive. further, other countries attempting to retaliate by imposing tariffs would increase the cost for us to import our vehicles into such countries. in addition, changes to and withdrawals from existing trade agreements and the entry into new trade agreements between governments may impact our results of operations. china, in particular, presents unique risks to automakers due to its unique competitive and regulatory landscape. for example, we have established joint ventures in china, and, as discussed above under ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies , we do not have the ability to control or operate those joint ventures for our sole benefit. changes in the chinese economy, and the automotive market in particular, are driving significant changes to our business model for operating in china. moreover, changes in u.s.-china trade policy and new or increased tariffs, as well as a further economic slowdown, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in europe, the united kingdom withdrew from the european union effective as of january 31, 2020, and is now in a period of transition until the end of 2020. the transition period maintains all existing trading arrangements. during the transition period , the united kingdom and european union will negotiate future trading arrangements. until a final agreement has been reached, an exit without a trade agreement in place, which would result in the united kingdom losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, continues to be a risk. an exit from the european union without an agreement in place would likely result in a significant reduction in industry volumes in the united kingdom, increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports, and delays at the u.k. border, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. to the extent there is a negotiated brexit, the implementation of any agreements reached, and the changes to current operations and processes resulting therefrom, could have an adverse impact on our operations. we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. industry sales volume in any of our key markets can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and results of operations. industry vehicle sales are affected by overall economic and market conditions. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption for key markets including the united states, europe, or china, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. for a discussion of economic trends, see item 7. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford may face increased price competition or a reduction in demand for its products resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, competitive actions, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, tariffs, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity, particularly for trucks and utilities, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and market value of our investments can have a significant effect on results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. changes in commodity prices (from tariffs, as discussed above under with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and brexit , or otherwise), currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility. as a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. in addition, our results are impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments, which are included in corporate other. financial risks ford and ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford and ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on their credit ratings or their perceived creditworthiness. further, ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. the potential discontinuance of libor is one such risk that could cause market volatility or disruption. in july 2017, the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unknown whether any banks will continue to voluntarily submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021 or whether libor will continue to be published by its administrator based on these submissions or on any other basis. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, but the potential discontinuance of libor could adversely affect ford credit's access to the debt, securitization, or derivative markets and its cost of funding and hedging. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing results of operations and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, or tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce ford credit's return on the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume and mix of vehicles returned, economic conditions, marketing programs, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles, or changes in propulsion technology and related legislative changes. actual return volumes may be influenced by these factors, as well as by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's results of operations if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed . the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) legal and regulatory risks ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards, but we cannot ensure that employees or other individuals affiliated with us will not violate such laws or regulations. moreover, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, autonomous vehicle, and other regulations that may change in the future. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country, while proposals for additional regulation continue, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. the regulatory landscape is in flux and can change on short notice. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, the european union recently imposed stringent new regulations governing motor vehicle fleet co 2 emissions beginning in 2020, with significant potential penalties for excess emissions. in the united states, legal battles are taking shape over environmental regulatory standards. california, which has an ambitious plan to reduce overall ghg emissions to 40% below 1990 levels by 2030, is vigorously opposing an effort by the federal government to preempt state regulations governing motor vehicle ghg emissions. with the backing of other states, california continues to assert its right to promulgate and enforce stringent motor vehicle ghg and zev regulations. these conflicts give rise to regulatory uncertainty and create the possibility that applicable regulatory standards may change quickly as a result of court rulings. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements with the intent of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. we are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more propulsion choices, such as electrified vehicles, with lower ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix (as described in more detail above under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance ), willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers, it may be difficult to meet applicable environmental standards without compromising results. increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world has led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, a number of governments, as well as ngos, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. court decisions arising out of consumer and investor litigation could give rise to de facto changes in the interpretation of existing emission laws and regulations, thereby imposing new burdens on manufacturers. for more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) we and other companies continue to develop autonomous vehicle technologies, and the u.s. and foreign governments are continuing to develop the regulatory framework that will govern autonomous vehicles. the evolution of the regulatory framework for autonomous vehicles, and the pace of the development of such regulatory framework, may subject us to increased costs and uncertainty, and may ultimately impact our ability to deliver autonomous vehicles and related services that customers want. ford and ford credit could be affected by the continued development of more stringent privacy, data use, and data protection laws and regulations as well as consumer expectations for the safeguarding of personal information. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the united states and other countries (such as the european union's general data protection regulation and the california consumer privacy act) relating to the collection, use, and security of personal information of consumers, employees, or others, including laws that may require us to notify regulators and affected individuals of a data security incident. complying with newly developed laws and regulations, which are subject to change and uncertain interpretations and may be inconsistent from state to state or country to country, may lead to a decline in consumer engagement or cause us to incur substantial costs or modify our operations or business practices. moreover, regulatory actions seeking to impose significant financial penalties for noncompliance and/or legal actions could be brought against us in the event of a data compromise, misuse of consumer information, or perceived or actual non-compliance with data protection or privacy requirements. further, any unauthorized release of personally identifiable information could harm our reputation, disrupt our business, cause us to expend significant resources, and lead consumers to withhold consent for our use of data. ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer protection regulations, or other regulations. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation and supervision under various federal, state, and local laws, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( item 7a ) for a discussion of commodity price risks. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. we expect to continue building this portfolio as we actively pursue innovation in every part of our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of each of our businesses, we do not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any particular intellectual property right or termination of any particular intellectual property agreement. 3 item 1. business (continued) warranty coverage, field service actions, and customer satisfaction actions. we provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. wholesales wholesales consist primarily of vehicles sold to dealerships. for the majority of such sales, we recognize revenue when we ship the vehicles to our dealerships from our manufacturing facilities. see item 7 for additional discussion of revenue recognition practices. wholesales in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: wholesales (a) (in thousands of units) 2017 2018 2019 united states 2,566 2,540 2,412 canada 308 295 289 mexico 82 69 53 north america 2,967 2,920 2,765 brazil 215 235 218 argentina 115 86 47 south america 373 365 295 united kingdom 418 387 367 germany 277 313 328 eu21 (b) 1,429 1,439 1,345 russia 54 51 28 turkey 116 65 47 europe 1,582 1,533 1,418 middle east &amp; africa 119 109 94 china (c) 1,235 732 535 australia 78 65 64 india 88 98 73 asean (d) 122 117 102 asia pacific operations 331 323 279 total company 6,607 5,982 5,386 _______ (a) wholesale unit volumes include sales of medium and heavy trucks. wholesale unit volumes also include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our unconsolidated chinese joint venture jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue. (b) eu21 markets are united kingdom, germany, france, italy, spain, austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, finland, greece, hungary, ireland, the netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, romania, russia, sweden, and switzerland. (c) china includes taiwan. (d) asean includes philippines, thailand, and vietnam. 4 item 1. business (continued) retail sales, industry volume, and market share retail sales, industry volume, and market share in each region and in certain key markets within each region during the past three years were as follows: retail sales (a) industry volume (b) market share (c) (in millions of units) (in millions of units) (as a percentage) 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 united states 2.6 2.5 2.4 17.6 17.7 17.5 14.7 % 14.1 % 13.8 % canada 0.3 0.3 0.3 2.1 2.0 2.0 14.9 14.7 14.6 mexico 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.5 1.4 5.3 4.8 4.4 north america 3.0 2.9 2.8 21.5 21.5 21.1 13.9 13.4 13.2 brazil 0.2 0.2 0.2 2.2 2.6 2.8 9.6 9.2 8.1 argentina 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.8 0.5 12.9 12.1 11.4 south america 0.4 0.4 0.3 4.2 4.5 4.3 8.9 8.3 7.2 united kingdom 0.4 0.4 0.4 3.0 2.8 2.7 13.8 13.7 13.0 germany 0.3 0.3 0.3 3.8 3.8 4.0 7.7 7.9 8.3 eu21 (d) 1.4 1.4 1.4 19.3 19.6 19.7 7.3 7.2 6.9 russia 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8 1.8 3.1 2.9 1.6 turkey 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.5 11.9 10.9 10.1 europe 1.6 1.5 1.4 20.9 20.9 21.0 7.5 7.2 6.8 middle east &amp; africa 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.6 3.8 3.1 3.8 3.0 3.2 china (e) 1.2 0.8 0.6 28.6 26.7 26.1 4.2 2.9 2.2 australia 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.2 1.1 6.6 6.0 6.0 india 0.1 0.1 0.1 4.1 4.4 3.8 2.2 2.2 2.0 asean (f) 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.7 1.8 7.5 6.6 5.9 asia pacific operations (e) 0.3 0.3 0.3 16.2 16.8 16.3 2.0 1.9 1.7 global / total company 6.6 6.0 5.5 95.0 94.2 91.9 7.0 % 6.3 % 6.0 % ______________ (a) retail sales represents primarily sales by dealers and is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy trucks. (b) industry volume is an internal estimate based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe; includes medium and heavy trucks. (c) market share represents reported retail sales of our brands as a percent of total industry volume in the relevant market or region. (d) eu21 markets are united kingdom, germany, france, italy, spain, austria, belgium, czech republic, denmark, finland, greece, hungary, ireland, netherlands, norway, poland, portugal, romania, russia, sweden, and switzerland. (e) china includes taiwan; china and asia pacific operations market share includes ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. (f) asean includes philippines, thailand, and vietnam. u.s. sales by type the following table shows u.s. retail sales volume and u.s. wholesales segregated by truck, suv, and car sales. u.s. retail sales volume reflects transactions with (i) retail and fleet customers (as reported by dealers), (ii) government, and (iii) ford management. u.s. wholesales reflect sales to dealers. u.s. retail sales u.s. wholesales 2018 2019 2018 2019 trucks 1,139,079 1,243,136 1,156,022 1,285,859 suvs 872,215 830,471 937,845 816,933 cars 486,024 349,091 445,999 309,413 total vehicles 2,497,318 2,422,698 2,539,866 2,412,205 5 item 1. business (continued) mobility segment our mobility segment primarily includes development costs related to our autonomous vehicles and our investment in mobility through ford smart mobility llc ( fsm ). autonomous vehicles includes self-driving systems development and vehicle integration, autonomous vehicle research and advanced engineering, autonomous vehicle transportation-as-a-service network development, user experience, and business strategy and business development teams. fsm designs and builds mobility products and subscription and other services on its own, and collaborates with service providers and technology companies. ford credit segment the ford credit segment is comprised of the ford credit business on a consolidated basis, which is primarily vehicle-related financing and leasing activities. ford credit offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and finance lease (retail financing) and operating lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our affiliates; and payments made under dealer financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios consumer and non-consumer. finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and finance leases (comprised of sales-type and direct financing leases) for new vehicles to retail and commercial customers, including leasing companies, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. ford credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing, as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our affiliates, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. ford credit also provides financing to us for vehicles that we lease to our employees. ford credit does business in the united states and canada through business centers. outside of the united states, europe is ford credit's largest operation. ford credit's european operations are managed primarily through its united kingdom-based subsidiary, fce bank plc ( fce ). within europe, fce's largest markets are the united kingdom and germany. the following table shows ford credit's retail financing and operating lease share of new ford and lincoln vehicle sales as well as its wholesale financing share of new ford and lincoln vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states and europe: years ended december 31, 2017 2018 2019 united states share of ford and lincoln sales (excl. fleet) 55 % 58 % 51 % wholesale share 76 76 75 europe - financing share share of ford sales (incl. fleet) 37 % 38 % 37 % wholesale share 98 98 98 in 2019, the lower year-over-year share of ford and lincoln sales in the united states primarily reflects changes in ford's marketing programs. see item 7 and notes 10 , 11 , and 13 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for a discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. 6 item 1. business (continued) we routinely sponsor special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. we have an amended and restated relationship agreement with ford credit, pursuant to which, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5:1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5:1. no capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement. the agreement also allocates to ford credit $3 billion of commitments under our $13.4 billion corporate credit facility. in a separate agreement with fce, ford credit has agreed to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million. no payments have been made pursuant to that agreement. ford credit files periodic reports with the sec that contain additional information regarding ford credit. the reports are available through ford credit's website located at www.fordcredit.com/investor-center and can also be found on the sec's website located at www.sec.gov . the foregoing information regarding ford credit's website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this report nor filed with the sec. governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. the most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below: vehicle emissions control u.s. requirements - federal and california emission standards. both the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) and the california air resources board ( carb ) have established motor vehicle tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards that become increasingly stringent over time. thirteen states have adopted the california standards, and other states may join them. both federal and california regulations also require motor vehicles to be equipped with on-board diagnostic ( obd ) systems that monitor emission-related systems and components. in addition, vehicles and heavy-duty engines must be certified by epa prior to sale in the united states and canada, and by carb prior to sale in california and the relevant states. compliance with emissions standards, obd requirements, and related regulations can be challenging and can drive increased product development costs, warranty costs, and vehicle recalls. both epa and carb have announced that they intend to promulgate new emissions regulations applicable to future heavy-duty engines. these rules are likely to include more stringent emissions standards as well as new requirements affecting durability testing, warranty, and obd. the new rules are expected to impose increased challenges and costs on the development of heavy-duty engines. compliance with automobile emission standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. legislative, regulatory, and judicial developments related to fuel quality at both the national and state levels could affect vehicle manufacturers' warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emission standards. the california vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ). the current zev regulations mandate substantial annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles through the 2025 model year. by the 2025 model year, approximately 15% of a manufacturer's total california sales volume will need to be made up of such vehicles. california is now in the process of promulgating future zev regulations aimed at medium- and heavy-duty vehicles. these rules, which could entail significant costs and compliance challenges, are also expected to include complex warranty and recall requirements. compliance with zev rules depends on market conditions as well as the availability of adequate infrastructure to support vehicle charging. 7 item 1. business (continued) european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. regulatory stringency has increased significantly since 2014 when stage vi emission standards were introduced. since then , a laboratory test cycle for co 2 and emissions was implemented in 2017, followed by the introduction of on-road emission testing using portable emission analyzers (real driving emission or rde ). these on-road emission tests are in addition to the laboratory-based tests. the divergence between the regulatory limit that is tested in laboratory conditions and the values measured in rde tests will ultimately be reduced to zero as the regulatory demands increase. the costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant, and following the eu commission's indication of its intent to accelerate emissions rules in its new road map publication eu green deal, the challenges will continue. in addition, the whole vehicle type approval ( wvta ) regulation has been updated to increase the stringency of in-market surveillance . there is an increasing trend of city access restrictions for internal combustion engine powered vehicles, particularly in european cities that do not meet air quality limits. the access rules being introduced are developed by individual cities based on their specific concerns, resulting in rapid deployment of access rules that differ greatly among cities. the speed of implementation of access rules may directly influence customer vehicle residual values and choice of next purchase, and there is a risk that these rules may result in the need for customers to retrofit their vehicles with emission after-treatment systems. in an effort to achieve country specific targets supporting the paris accord, some countries are adopting yearly increases in co 2 taxes, where such a system is in place, and publishing dates by when internal combustion powered vehicles may no longer be registered, e.g., norway 2025 and the netherlands 2030. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality and climate change concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ( un-ece ) mobile source emission regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations. for example, the china stage vi emission standards, based on european stage vi emission standards for light duty vehicles , u.s. evaporative and refueling emissions standards, and carb obd ii requirements, incorporate two levels of stringency for tailpipe emissions. level one is slated for implementation by july 1, 2020, and the more stringent level two is slated for implementation by july 1, 2023. the government has encouraged the more developed cities to pull-ahead implementation. the earliest implementation began in july 2019. canadian criteria emissions regulations are largely aligned with u.s. requirements; however, quebec's zev regulations are more stringent than those in place in california. in addition, in may 2019, the province of british columbia passed legislation regarding regulation of zev sales. final regulations are expected in 2020. in south america, there is a mix of regulations and processes based on u.s. and european standards. brazil has established more stringent requirements for light duty vehicle tailpipe and evaporative emissions based on u.s. regulations, including onboard refueling vapor recovery ( orvr ) systems and obd monitors, and adopted rde requirements based on european stage vi regulations. new requirements to be implemented in two stages (proconve l7 by january 1, 2022 and proconve l8 by january 1, 2025) include fleet average emissions standards based on u.s. epa's requirements. for heavy-duty vehicles, proconve p8 established new requirements effective january 1, 2022 based on european stage vi regulations. elsewhere, there is a mix of regulations and processes based on u.s. and eu standards. not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emission standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if obd or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. global developments. in recent years, epa and carb have increased their focus on the use of defeat devices. defeat devices are elements of design (typically embedded in software) that improperly cause the emission control system to function less effectively during normal on-road driving than during an official laboratory emissions test, without justification. they are prohibited by law in many jurisdictions, and we do not use defeat devices in our vehicles. 8 item 1. business (continued) regulators around the world continue to scrutinize automakers' emission testing, which has led to a number of defeat device settlements by various manufacturers. epa is carrying out additional non-standard tests as part of its vehicle certification program. carb has also been conducting extensive non-standard emission tests, which in some cases have resulted in certification delays for diesel vehicles. in the past, several european countries have conducted non-standard emission tests and published the results, and, in some cases, this supplemental testing has triggered investigations of manufacturers for possible defeat devices. testing is expected to continue on an ongoing basis. in addition, plaintiffs' attorneys are pursuing consumer class action lawsuits based on alleged excessive emissions from cars and trucks, which could, in turn, prompt further investigations by regulators. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards u.s. requirements - light duty vehicles . federal law requires that light duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards set by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. the law requires nhtsa to promulgate and enforce separate cafe standards applicable to each manufacturer's fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light - duty trucks. epa also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions under the clean air act. because the vast majority of ghgs emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, ghg emission standards are similar to fuel economy standards. thus, it is necessary for nhtsa and epa to coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and ghg standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies. since the 2012 model year, epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated harmonized ghg and fuel economy regulations under what came to be known as the one national program ( onp ) framework. california, which had promulgated its own state-specific set of ghg regulations, agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with its own ghg requirements, thereby avoiding a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state ghg standards. onp has required manufacturers to achieve increasingly stringent year-over-year standards. onp was envisioned to continue at least through the 2025 model year. the onp rules provided for a midterm evaluation process under which, by april 2018, epa and nhtsa would re-evaluate the standards for model years 2022-2025 in order to ensure that they are feasible and optimal in light of intervening events. as a result of the mid-term evaluation process, the federal government issued a proposed rule to significantly reduce the stringency of future ghg standards. the federal government also took the position that california's vehicle ghg standards are preempted by federal law. california, which continues to assert its authority to regulate vehicle ghgs, took steps to withdraw from onp and return to enforcing its own state-specific ghg standard beginning with the 2021 model year. litigation over the preemption issue is underway. the federal government is expected to release a final rule setting fuel economy and ghg standards; this rule is likely to be challenged in court by a coalition of states and non-governmental organizations ( ngos ). the anticipated litigation over both standards and preemption, with uncertain outcomes, creates difficulty for purposes of ford's future product planning. one plausible outcome is a bifurcated scenario in which california, along with the 13 states that have adopted california's ghg standards, enforce one set of rules, while a different set of rules applies in the rest of the country. such an outcome would impose a layer of complexity on ford's product planning, testing, certification, and distribution activities. in an effort to avoid such an outcome and mitigate the current regulatory uncertainty, ford reached an agreement with california on a set of terms for an alternative framework. under this framework, ford will meet a designated set of standards on a national basis in lieu of the california regulatory program. this framework enables ford to continue its product planning on a nationwide basis, and it is also consistent with ford's environmental goals. ford is in the process of finalizing a formal agreement with california and the relevant states based on the framework terms. while the pending framework agreement helps mitigate the current regulatory uncertainty, it does not resolve all potential risks or litigation outcomes. ford would face increased costs and complexity should a bifurcated set of fuel economy/ghg regulations be imposed in the future. if any federal or state agency imposes and enforces fuel economy and ghg standards that are misaligned with market conditions, ford would likely be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volumes and results of operations. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for ford's most fuel-efficient vehicles; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles, such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks in order to maintain compliance. 9 item 1. business (continued) u.s. requirements - heavy - duty vehicles. epa and nhtsa have jointly promulgated ghg and fuel economy standards for heavy - duty vehicles (generally, vehicles over 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight rating) through the 2027 model year. in ford's case, the standards primarily affect heavy - duty pickup trucks and vans, plus vocational vehicles such as shuttle buses and delivery trucks. as the heavy - duty standards increase in stringency, it may become more difficult to comply while continuing to offer a full lineup of heavy - duty trucks. european requirements. the eu regulates passenger car and light commercial vehicle co 2 emissions using sliding scales with different co 2 targets for each manufacturer based on the respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles first registered in a calendar year , with separate targets for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. a penalty system applies to manufacturers failing to meet the individual co 2 targets. pooling agreements between manufacturers are possible under certain conditions. for multi-stage vehicles (e.g., ford's transit chassis cabs), the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the initial target levels get significantly more stringent every five years (2020, 2025, 2030) , requiring significant investments in propulsion technologies and extensive fleet management forcing low co 2 volume. delayed launches, supply shortages , or lower demand for low co 2 emission vehicles , as well as a limited charging infrastructure , can trigger compliance risks. the eu commission is investigating the introduction of real driving co 2 and life cycle assessment elements, and heavy - duty vehicles are addressed in separate regulations with analogous requirements and challenges. as discussed above, the eu commission has announced a green deal that is likely to trigger more stringent requirements for co 2 emissions and regulated emissions and include recycling and substance restrictions. the announcement also included a pull ahead of revision dates for the co 2 fleet regulation. the eu commission targets net climate neutrality by 2050 and a more ambitious 2030 interim target (a 50-55% instead of 40% co 2 reduction compared to 1990). outside of the eu, switzerland has introduced similar rules. ford faces the risk of advance premium payment requirements for both passenger cars as well as for light commercial vehicles due to, for example, unexpected market fluctuations and shorter lead times impacting average fleet performance. the united nations developed a technical regulation for passenger car emissions and co 2. this new world light duty test procedure ( wltp ) is focused primarily on better aligning laboratory co 2 and fuel consumption figures with customer-reported figures. the introduction of wltp in europe started in september 2017 and requires updates to co 2 labeling, thereby impacting taxes in countries with a co 2 tax scheme as well as co 2 fleet regulations for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. costs associated with new or incremental testing for wltp are significant. some european countries have implemented or are considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 vehicle emissions, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling to address country specific targets associated with the paris accord. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands, among others, have introduced taxation based on co 2 emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. other national requirements. the canadian federal government regulates vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act. in october 2014, the canadian federal government published the final changes to the regulation for light - duty vehicles, which maintain alignment with u.s. epa vehicle ghg standards for the 2017-2025 model years. canada is also undertaking a mid-term evaluation of the standards for the 2022 model year and beyond, the outcome of which remains uncertain and may be influenced by u . . actions. the final regulation for 2014-2018 heavy - duty vehicles was published in february 2013. the 2018 model year standards will remain in place through the 2020 model year. final regulations for the 2021 model year and beyond were published in may 2018 and are in line with u.s. requirements. in mexico, fuel economy and co 2 regulation is based on a combination of nhtsa and u.s. epa standards, with modifications that take into consideration local conditions; however, the current administration is seeking to implement more stringent regulations. the china fuel consumption requirement uses a weight-based approach to establish targets, specifies year-over-year target reductions, and requires new energy vehicle ( nev ) mandated volumes of plug-in hybrids, battery electric vehicles, or fuel cell vehicles to generate credits equivalent to 12% in 2020 of the year's production or import fleet volume. china has set the 2020 fuel consumption fleet average at 5.0l/100km and 4.0l/100km in 2025. the government is projecting further fuel consumption reductions in 2030 and is targeting 3.2l/100km. the fuel efficiency targets and nev mandate will impact the costs of vehicle technology in the future. 10 item 1. business (continued) in south america, brazil was the first country to establish an energy efficiency policy for light-duty vehicles with a spark ignition engine. targets had to be achieved for 2017 and must be maintained through 2020. additional tax reductions are available if further fuel efficiency targets are achieved, and penalties may be applied if the efficiency levels are not maintained. in december 2018, the next phase of the fuel efficiency program was published. it includes light-duty diesel and heavy-duty vehicles, and it will be effective in 2022. other countries in the region are considering a similar approach, such as the fuel efficiency labeling program in argentina and chile. vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates vehicles and vehicle equipment in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly and has continued to evolve as global compliance and public domain (e.g., new car assessment programs ( ncaps ), insurance institute for highway safety ( iihs )) requirements continue to evolve, are increasing in demands, and lack harmonization globally. as we expand our business priorities to include autonomous vehicles and broader mobility products and services, our financial exposure has increased. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance issue exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. other national requirements. the eu and many countries have established vehicle safety standards and regulations and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. the european general safety regulation introduced un-ece regulations, which will be required for the european type approval process and will require the mandatory introduction of multiple active and passive safety features with limited lead time. eu regulators also are focusing on active safety features, such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting un-ece based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. any difference between north american and un-ece based regulations can add complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles, and we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance; several on-going bilateral negotiations on free trade can potentially contribute to this goal. new safety and recall requirements in brazil, china, india, and gulf cooperation council countries also may add substantial costs and complexity to our global recall practice. brazil has set mandatory fleet safety targets, and penalties are applied, if these levels are not maintained, while a tax reduction may be available for over-performance. in canada, regulatory requirements are currently aligned with u.s. regulations; however, under the canadian motor vehicle safety act , the minister of transport has broad powers to order manufacturers to submit a notice of defect or non-compliance when the minister considers it to be in the interest of safety. in china, a new mandatory event data recorder regulation is under development that is more complex than u.s. requirements, and in china, malaysia, and south korea, mandatory e-call requirements are being drafted. e-call is mandatory in the uae for new vehicles beginning with the 2021 model year. new car assessment programs. organizations around the world rate and compare motor vehicles in ncaps to provide consumers and businesses with additional information about the safety of new vehicles. ncaps use crash tests and other evaluations that are different than what is required by applicable regulations, and use stars to rate vehicle safety, with five stars awarded for the highest rating and one for the lowest. achieving high ncap ratings, which may vary by country or region, can add complexity and cost to vehicles. similarly, environmental rating systems exist in various regions, e.g., green ncap in europe. 11 item 1. business (continued) employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31 was as follows (in thousands): 2018 2019 automotive 183 173 ford credit 8 7 mobility 1 3 corporate and other 7 7 total company 199 190 substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive segment are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united auto workers ). at december 31, 2019 , approximately 56,000 hourly employees in the united states were represented by the uaw. item 1a. risk factors. we have listed below the most significant risk factors applicable to us grouped into the following categories: operational risks; macroeconomic, market, and strategic risks; financial risks; and legal and regulatory risks. operational risks ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of global redesign and fitness actions. we previously announced plans for our global redesign and fitness actions to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability. in addition, to further improve our fitness and overall competitiveness, we are attempting to leverage relationships with third parties, including various alliances and joint ventures as discussed below under ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies . if our global redesign actions are not successful or are delayed for reasons outside of our control, particularly in europe and south america, or our fitness actions are not successful, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. nhtsa's enforcement strategy has shifted to a significant increase in civil penalties levied and the use of consent orders requiring direct oversight by nhtsa of certain manufacturers' safety processes, a trend that could continue. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the cost of recall and customer satisfaction actions to remedy defects in vehicles that have been sold could be substantial, particularly if the actions relate to global platforms or involve defects that are identified years after production (e.g., takata airbag inflators). such recall and customer satisfaction actions may relate to defective components we receive from suppliers, and our ability to recover from the suppliers may be limited by the suppliers' financial condition. we accrue the estimated cost of both base warranty coverages and field service actions at the time a vehicle is sold, and we reevaluate the adequacy of our accruals on a regular basis. in addition, from time to time, we issue extended warranties at our expense, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the time of issuance. for additional information regarding warranty and field service action costs, including our process for establishing our reserves, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. if warranty costs are greater than anticipated as a result of increased vehicle and component complexity, the adoption of new technologies, or otherwise, such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, launch delays, recall actions, and increased warranty costs could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed below under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance . 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies. we have invested in, formed strategic alliances with, and announced or formed joint ventures with a number of companies, and we may expand those relationships or enter into similar relationships with additional companies. these initiatives typically involve enormous complexity and we may not be able to complete anticipated alliance or joint venture transactions, the anticipated benefits of these transactions may not be realized, or the benefits may be delayed. for example, we may not successfully integrate an alliance or joint venture with our operations, including the implementation of our controls, systems, procedures, and policies, or unforeseen expenses or liabilities may arise that were not discovered during due diligence prior to an investment or entry into a strategic alliance, or a misalignment of interests may develop between us and the other party. further, to the extent we share ownership, control, or management with another party in a joint venture, our ability to influence the joint venture may be limited, and we may be unable to prevent misconduct or implement our compliance or internal control systems. in addition, implementation of a new business strategy may lead to the disruption of our existing business operations, including distracting management from current operations. results of operations from new activities may be lower than our existing activities, and, if a strategy is unsuccessful, we may not recoup our investments in that strategy. failure to successfully and timely realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions or strategies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by suppliers, to process, transmit, and store electronic information that is important to the operation of our business and our vehicles. despite security measures, we are at risk for interruptions, outages, and compromises of: (i) operational systems (including business, financial, accounting, product development, consumer receivables, data processing, or manufacturing processes); (ii) facility security systems; and/or (iii) in-vehicle systems or mobile devices. such cyber incidents could materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise the privacy of personal information of consumers, employees, or others; jeopardize the security of our facilities; affect the performance of in-vehicle systems; and/or impact the safety of our vehicles. the cyber risk exposure rises as we continue to develop and produce vehicles with increased connectivity. we, our suppliers, and our dealers have been the target of cyber attacks in the past, and such attacks will continue to evolve in the future, which may cause cyber incidents to be more difficult to detect for periods of time. our networks and in-vehicle systems, sharing similar architectures, could also be impacted by the negligence or misconduct of insiders or third parties who have access to our networks and systems. we continually employ capabilities, processes, and other security measures designed to reduce and mitigate the risk of cyber attacks; however, such preventative measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be sufficient in all circumstances or mitigate all potential risks. moreover, a cyber incident could harm our reputation and/or subject us to regulatory actions or litigation, and a cyber incident involving us or one of our suppliers could impact production. ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor issues, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors. a work stoppage or other limitation on production could occur at ford's or its suppliers' facilities for any number of reasons, including as a result of labor issues, including disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, absenteeism, public health issues, or in response to potential restructuring actions (e.g., plant closures); as a result of supplier financial distress or other production constraints, quality issues, or other difficulties; as a result of a natural disaster (including climate-related physical risk); or for other reasons. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and, therefore, cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier (due to long lead times, new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier before ramping up to provide the components or materials, etc.). such single-source suppliers also could threaten to disrupt our production as leverage in negotiations. in addition, when we undertake a model changeover, significant downtime at one or more of our production facilities may be required, and our ability to return to full production may be delayed if we experience production difficulties at one of our facilities or a supplier's facility. moreover, as vehicles, components, and their integration become more complex, we may face an increased risk of a delay in production of new vehicles. a significant disruption to our production schedule could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 13 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. these agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions. these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities. ford's ability to attract and retain talented, diverse, and highly skilled employees is critical to its success and competitiveness. our success depends on our ability to continue to recruit and retain talented and diverse employees who are highly skilled in engineering, software, and technology, among other areas. competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of existing employees or our inability to recruit new employees, particularly with the introduction of new technologies, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business. macroeconomic, market, and strategic risks ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace and we may not be able to accurately predict trends or the success of new products or services in the market. it takes years to design and develop a new vehicle or change an existing vehicle. because customers' preferences may change quickly, our new and existing products may not generate sales in sufficient quantities and at costs low enough to be profitable. offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if we are unable to differentiate our products from those of our competitors or sufficiently tailor our products to customers in markets like china, there could be insufficient demand for our products, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. with increased consumer interconnectedness through the internet, social media, and other media, mere allegations relating to quality, safety, fuel efficiency, corporate social responsibility, or other key attributes can negatively impact our reputation or market acceptance of our products or services, even where such allegations prove to be inaccurate or unfounded. further, our ability to successfully grow through investments in the area of mobility and electrification depends on many factors, including advancements in technology, regulatory changes, and other factors that are difficult to predict, that may significantly affect the future of autonomous vehicles and mobility services. the automotive and mobility businesses are very competitive, and rapid changes to our industry, including the introduction of new types of competitors that may possess technological innovations, increase the importance that we are able to anticipate, develop, and deliver products and services that customers desire on a timely basis and at costs low enough to be profitable. if the propulsion choices (such as electrified vehicles) or autonomous vehicles and services we offer do not gain market acceptance or at the rate we expect, there could be an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. moreover, new offerings may present technological challenges that could be costly to implement and overcome and may subject us to customer claims if they do not operate as anticipated. in addition, since new technologies are subject to market acceptance, a malfunction involving any manufacturer's autonomous vehicle may negatively impact the perception of autonomous vehicles and erode customer trust. ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. a shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and utilities) at levels beyond our current planning assumption, whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons, could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 14 item 1a. risk factors (continued) with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and brexit. with the increasing interconnectedness of the global economy, a financial crisis, economic downturn or recession, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world. changes in international trade policy can also have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. for example, steps taken by the u.s. government to apply or consider applying tariffs on automobiles, parts, and other products and materials have the potential to disrupt existing supply chains, impose additional costs on our business, affect the demand for our products, and make us less competitive. further, other countries attempting to retaliate by imposing tariffs would increase the cost for us to import our vehicles into such countries. in addition, changes to and withdrawals from existing trade agreements and the entry into new trade agreements between governments may impact our results of operations. china, in particular, presents unique risks to automakers due to its unique competitive and regulatory landscape. for example, we have established joint ventures in china, and, as discussed above under ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies , we do not have the ability to control or operate those joint ventures for our sole benefit. changes in the chinese economy, and the automotive market in particular, are driving significant changes to our business model for operating in china. moreover, changes in u.s.-china trade policy and new or increased tariffs, as well as a further economic slowdown, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in europe, the united kingdom withdrew from the european union effective as of january 31, 2020, and is now in a period of transition until the end of 2020. the transition period maintains all existing trading arrangements. during the transition period , the united kingdom and european union will negotiate future trading arrangements. until a final agreement has been reached, an exit without a trade agreement in place, which would result in the united kingdom losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the european union and other countries, continues to be a risk. an exit from the european union without an agreement in place would likely result in a significant reduction in industry volumes in the united kingdom, increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports, and delays at the u.k. border, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. to the extent there is a negotiated brexit, the implementation of any agreements reached, and the changes to current operations and processes resulting therefrom, could have an adverse impact on our operations. we have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets. these investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. further, the u.s. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates. industry sales volume in any of our key markets can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and results of operations. industry vehicle sales are affected by overall economic and market conditions. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption for key markets including the united states, europe, or china, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. for a discussion of economic trends, see item 7. 15 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford may face increased price competition or a reduction in demand for its products resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, competitive actions, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, tariffs, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies. continuation of or increased excess capacity, particularly for trucks and utilities, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and market value of our investments can have a significant effect on results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business. changes in commodity prices (from tariffs, as discussed above under with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and brexit , or otherwise), currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility. as a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see item 7 and item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks. in addition, our results are impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments, which are included in corporate other. financial risks ford and ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. ford and ford credit's ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost is dependent on their credit ratings or their perceived creditworthiness. further, ford credit's ability to obtain securitized funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. the potential discontinuance of libor is one such risk that could cause market volatility or disruption. in july 2017, the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unknown whether any banks will continue to voluntarily submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021 or whether libor will continue to be published by its administrator based on these submissions or on any other basis. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, but the potential discontinuance of libor could adversely affect ford credit's access to the debt, securitization, or derivative markets and its cost of funding and hedging. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there is a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford credit is unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing results of operations and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 16 item 1a. risk factors (continued) ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback. we receive economic benefits from national, state, and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain, or increase investment, workforce, or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, or tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent. in brazil, however, the federal government has levied assessments against us concerning our calculation of federal incentives we received, and certain states have challenged the grant to us of tax incentives by the state of bahia. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of our accounting for government incentives, and item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of tax proceedings in brazil and the potential requirement for us to post collateral. ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. in addition, ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes for the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which would reduce ford credit's return on the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume and mix of vehicles returned, economic conditions, marketing programs, and quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles, or changes in propulsion technology and related legislative changes. actual return volumes may be influenced by these factors, as well as by contractual lease-end values relative to auction values. each of these factors, alone or in combination, has the potential to adversely affect ford credit's results of operations if actual results were to differ significantly from ford credit's projections. see critical accounting estimates in item 7 for additional discussion. economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed . the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). we generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred. to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results. for discussion of our assumptions, see critical accounting estimates in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition. we have defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits ( opeb ) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits). see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or opeb obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 17 item 1a. risk factors (continued) legal and regulatory risks ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards, but we cannot ensure that employees or other individuals affiliated with us will not violate such laws or regulations. moreover, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales. ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, autonomous vehicle, and other regulations that may change in the future. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country, while proposals for additional regulation continue, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. the regulatory landscape is in flux and can change on short notice. for example, as discussed above under item 1. business - governmental standards, the european union recently imposed stringent new regulations governing motor vehicle fleet co 2 emissions beginning in 2020, with significant potential penalties for excess emissions. in the united states, legal battles are taking shape over environmental regulatory standards. california, which has an ambitious plan to reduce overall ghg emissions to 40% below 1990 levels by 2030, is vigorously opposing an effort by the federal government to preempt state regulations governing motor vehicle ghg emissions. with the backing of other states, california continues to assert its right to promulgate and enforce stringent motor vehicle ghg and zev regulations. these conflicts give rise to regulatory uncertainty and create the possibility that applicable regulatory standards may change quickly as a result of court rulings. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements with the intent of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments. we are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more propulsion choices, such as electrified vehicles, with lower ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix (as described in more detail above under ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance ), willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. if fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers, it may be difficult to meet applicable environmental standards without compromising results. increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world has led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals. the cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, a number of governments, as well as ngos, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols. the protocols could change, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales. court decisions arising out of consumer and investor litigation could give rise to de facto changes in the interpretation of existing emission laws and regulations, thereby imposing new burdens on manufacturers. for more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the governmental standards discussion in item 1. business above. 18 item 1a. risk factors (continued) we and other companies continue to develop autonomous vehicle technologies, and the u.s. and foreign governments are continuing to develop the regulatory framework that will govern autonomous vehicles. the evolution of the regulatory framework for autonomous vehicles, and the pace of the development of such regulatory framework, may subject us to increased costs and uncertainty, and may ultimately impact our ability to deliver autonomous vehicles and related services that customers want. ford and ford credit could be affected by the continued development of more stringent privacy, data use, and data protection laws and regulations as well as consumer expectations for the safeguarding of personal information. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the united states and other countries (such as the european union's general data protection regulation and the california consumer privacy act) relating to the collection, use, and security of personal information of consumers, employees, or others, including laws that may require us to notify regulators and affected individuals of a data security incident. complying with newly developed laws and regulations, which are subject to change and uncertain interpretations and may be inconsistent from state to state or country to country, may lead to a decline in consumer engagement or cause us to incur substantial costs or modify our operations or business practices. moreover, regulatory actions seeking to impose significant financial penalties for noncompliance and/or legal actions could be brought against us in the event of a data compromise, misuse of consumer information, or perceived or actual non-compliance with data protection or privacy requirements. further, any unauthorized release of personally identifiable information could harm our reputation, disrupt our business, cause us to expend significant resources, and lead consumers to withhold consent for our use of data. ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer protection regulations, or other regulations. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. in the united states, for example, ford credit's operations are subject to regulation and supervision under various federal, state, and local laws, including the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. the dodd-frank act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the finance industry and the capital markets and gives the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit's automotive financing business. exercise of these powers by the cfpb may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business. the cfpb has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as ford credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 19 item 2. properties. our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. most of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 40% of the total square footage, and lease the balance). the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 90% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. we and the entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2019 use eight regional engineering, research, and development centers, and 55 manufacturing and assembly plants, which includes plants that are operated by us or our consolidated joint ventures that support our automotive segment. the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns are as follows: ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner), and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford vehicles sourced from ford. in addition to domestic assembly, flh imports ford brand built-up vehicles from asia pacific, europe, and the united states. the joint venture operates one plant in taiwan. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and diesel song cong one member limited liability company (a subsidiary of the vietnam engine and agricultural machinery corporation, which in turn is majority owned (87.43%) by the state of vietnam represented by the ministry of industry and trade) (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes a variety of ford passenger and commercial vehicle models. the joint venture operates one plant in vietnam. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by our consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive segment are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. the most significant of the automotive unconsolidated joint ventures are as follows: autoalliance (thailand) co., ltd. ( aat ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and mazda that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces ford and mazda products for domestic and export sales. changan ford automobile corporation, ltd. ( caf ) a 50/50 joint venture between ford and chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ). caf operates five assembly plants, an engine plant, and a transmission plant in china where it produces and distributes a variety of ford passenger vehicle models. ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ( ford otosan ) a joint venture in turkey among ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is the sole supplier to us of the transit, transit custom, and transit courier commercial vehicles for europe and is our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. ford otosan also manufactures the cargo truck for the turkish and certain export markets and certain engines and transmissions, as well as certain components mainly for the transit for supply to other regions. the joint venture owns three plants, a parts distribution depot, and a research and development center in turkey. ford sollers netherlands b.v. ( ford sollers ) a joint venture between ford (49% shareholder) and sollers pjsc ( sollers ) (51% shareholder). the joint venture is primarily engaged in manufacturing light commercial vehicles for sale in russia, and has an exclusive right to manufacture, assemble, and distribute light commercial ford vehicles in russia through the licensing of certain trademarks and intellectual property rights. the joint venture operates one manufacturing facility in russia. 20 item 2. properties (continued) getrag ford transmissions gmbh ( gft ) a 50/50 joint venture with magna pt international gmbh (formerly getrag international gmbh), a german company owned by magna powertrain gmbh. gft operates plants in halewood, england; cologne, germany; and bordeaux, france and produces, among other things, manual transmissions for our europe business unit. jmc a publicly-traded company in china with ford (32% shareholder) and nanchang jiangling investment co., ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. nanchang jiangling investment co., ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between changan and jiangling motors company group. the public investors in jmc own 27% of its total outstanding shares. jmc assembles ford transit, ford everest, ford territory, ford engines, and non-ford vehicles and engines for distribution in china and in other export markets. jmc operates two assembly plants and one engine plant in nanchang, and is constructing a new vehicle assembly plant in nanchang. jmc also operates a plant in taiyuan that assembles heavy duty trucks and engines. the facilities described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our and our joint ventures' products. the furniture, equipment, and other physical property owned by our ford credit operations are not material in relation to the operations' total assets. item 3. legal proceedings. the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for a discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: product liability matters we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts within and outside of the united states alleging damages from injuries resulting from (or aggravated by) alleged defects in our vehicles. in many actions, no monetary amount of damages is specified or the specific amount alleged is the jurisdictional minimum. our experience with litigation alleging a specific amount of damages suggests that such amounts, on average, bear little relation to the actual amount of damages, if any, that we will pay in resolving such matters. in addition to pending actions, we assess the likelihood of incidents that likely have occurred but not yet been reported to us. we also take into consideration specific matters that have been raised as claims but have not yet proceeded to litigation. individual product liability matters which, if resolved unfavorably to the company, likely would involve a significant cost would be described herein. currently there are no such matters to report. asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are targeted more aggressively in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy or emerged from bankruptcy relieved of liability for such claims. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles. we are prepared to defend these cases and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, sometimes more than one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become significant in the future. our accrual for asbestos matters includes probable losses for both asserted and unasserted claims. 21 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) consumer matters we provide warranties on the vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. we are a defendant in numerous actions in state and federal courts alleging damages based on state and federal consumer protection laws and breach of warranty obligations. remedies under these statutes may include vehicle repurchase, civil penalties, and plaintiff's attorney fees. in some cases, plaintiffs also include an allegation of fraud. remedies for a fraud claim may include contract rescission, vehicle repurchase, and punitive damages. the cost of these matters is included in our warranty costs. we accrue obligations for warranty costs at the time of sale using a patterned estimation model that includes historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate the adequacy of our accruals on a regular basis. we are currently a defendant in a significant number of litigation matters relating to the performance of vehicles, including those equipped with dps6 transmissions. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. we have one environmental legal proceeding to which a governmental authority is a party and in which we believe there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: notice of violation to ford chicago assembly plant . on august 17, 2015, u.s. epa issued a notice of violation to our chicago assembly plant. epa alleges that the plant violated several requirements related to its air permit. monetary sanctions, if any, have not yet been determined. class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, in general we list those actions that (i) have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to an existing and certified class), and (ii) likely would involve a significant cost if resolved unfavorably to the company. at this time, other than as described below, we have no such class actions filed against us. in re: takata airbag product liability litigation; economic loss track cases against ford motor company. on july 16, 2018, ford entered into a settlement agreement related to a consumer economic loss class action pending before the u.s. district court for the southern district of florida. the first case was originally filed on october 27, 2014, against ford, takata, and several other automotive manufacturers, and was brought by consumers who own or owned vehicles equipped with takata airbag inflators. additional cases were subsequently filed in courts throughout the united states and consolidated into a multidistrict case before the florida court, which also included personal injury claims and claims by automotive recyclers. ford's july 16, 2018 settlement relates only to the consumer economic loss matters. in these cases, plaintiffs allege that ford vehicles equipped with takata airbags are defective and that ford did not disclose this defect to consumers. plaintiffs allege that they suffered several forms of economic damages as a result of purchasing vehicles with defective airbags. the settlement is for $299 million, which is subject to certain discounts, and is subject to court approval. on december 20, 2018, the court overruled all objections and entered a final order approving the settlement. several objectors then filed notices of appeal of the trial court's order. on december 10, 2019, plaintiffs filed a motion with the court indicating they reached an agreement with the objectors to resolve the dispute. the agreement does not increase the total cost to ford of the settlement. on january 23, 2020, the court held a hearing on the motion to approve the agreement, and on january 27, 2020, the court entered an indicative ruling indicating it would approve the agreement. the u.s. court of appeals for the eleventh circuit will review this ruling and consider whether to dismiss the objectors' appeal. 22 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) other matters brazilian tax matters. two brazilian states and the brazilian federal tax authority currently have outstanding substantial tax assessments against ford brazil related to state and federal tax incentives ford brazil receives for its operations in the brazilian state of bahia. all assessments have been appealed to the relevant administrative court of each jurisdiction. our appeals with the state of o paulo and the federal tax authority remain at the administrative level. in the state of minas gerais, where three cases are pending, one remains at the administrative level and two have been appealed to the judicial court. to proceed with an appeal within the judicial court system, an appellant may be required to post collateral, which would likely be significant. to date we have not been required to post any collateral. the state assessments are part of a broader conflict among various states in brazil. the federal legislature enacted laws designed to encourage the states to end that conflict, and in 2017 the states reached an agreement on a framework for resolution. ford brazil continues to pursue a resolution under the framework and expects the amount of any remaining assessments by the states to be resolved under that framework. the federal assessments are outside the scope of the legislation. transit connect customs ruling. on march 8, 2013, u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) ruled that transit connects imported as passenger wagons and later converted into cargo vans are subject to the 25% duty applicable to cargo vehicles, rather than the 2.5% duty applicable to passenger vehicles. as a result of the ruling, cbp is requiring ford to pay the 25% duty upon importation of transit connects that will be converted to cargo vehicles, and is seeking the difference in duty rates for prior imports. our protest of the ruling within cbp was denied, and we filed a challenge in the u.s. court of international trade ( cit ). on august 9, 2017, the cit ruled in our favor. on october 6, 2017, cbp filed a notice of appeal to the u.s. court of appeals for the federal circuit (the federal circuit ), and on june 7, 2019, a panel of three federal circuit judges ruled in favor of cbp. on july 22, 2019, we filed a petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc with the federal circuit. on october 16, 2019, the federal circuit denied our petition. we intend to file a petition for a writ of certiorari with the u.s. supreme court. if we prevail, we will receive a refund of the contested amounts paid, plus interest. if we do not prevail, cbp would recover the increased duties for prior imports, plus interest, and might assert a claim for penalties. european competition law matter. on october 5, 2018, fce bank plc ( fce ) received a notice from the italian competition authority (the ica ) concerning an alleged violation of article 101 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the ica alleges that fce and other parties engaged in anti-competitive practices in relation to the automotive finance market in italy. on january 9, 2019, fce received a decision from the ica, which included an assessment of a fine against fce in the amount of 42 million. on march 8, 2019, fce appealed the decision and the fine, and a hearing has been scheduled for february 26, 2020. the ultimate resolution of the matter may potentially take several years. emissions certification. the company has been investigating a potential concern involving its u.s. emissions certification process. this matter currently focuses on issues relating to road load estimations, including analytical modeling and coastdown testing. the potential concern does not involve the use of defeat devices (see item 1, governmental standards for a definition of defeat devices). we voluntarily disclosed this matter to the u.s. environmental protection agency and the california air resources board on february 18, 2019 and february 21, 2019, respectively. subsequently, the u.s. department of justice opened a criminal investigation into the matter. in addition, we notified a number of other state and federal agencies. we continue to cooperate fully with these government agencies. environment and climate change canada also has opened an investigation that is in a preliminary stage. at this stage, we cannot predict the outcome of these investigations, and we cannot provide assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on us. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 23 item 4a. executive officers of ford. our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2020: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board september 2006 62 james p. hackett (b) president and chief executive officer may 2017 64 james d. farley, jr. president, new businesses, technology &amp; strategy may 2019 57 joseph r. hinrichs president, automotive may 2019 53 tim stone chief financial officer june 2019 53 hau thai-tang chief product development and purchasing officer june 2017 53 bradley m. gayton chief administrative officer and general counsel june 2017 56 kiersten robinson chief human resources officer april 2018 49 cathy o'callaghan controller and chief financial officer, automotive september 2019 51 ____________ (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee, and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive. except as noted below, each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. prior to becoming president and chief executive officer of ford, jim hackett was a member of ford's board of directors from 2013 to 2016 and the chairman of ford smart mobility llc from march 2016 to may 2017. tim stone joined ford in april 2019. prior to becoming chief financial officer, tim stone held various positions at amazon.com, inc., most recently as vice president of finance until may 2018, and was chief financial officer of snap inc. from may 2018 to february 2019. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose or by a resolution to fill a vacancy. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 24 part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. market for registrant's stock our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states under the symbol f. as of january 31, 2020, stockholders of record of ford included approximately 112,618 holders of common stock and 3 holders of class b stock. we believe that the number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of record holders because a large portion of our common stock is held in street name by brokers. stock performance graph the information contained in this stock performance graph section shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or filed or incorporated by reference in future filings with the sec, or subject to the liabilities of section 18 of the exchange act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a document filed under the securities act or the exchange act. the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the total return on the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones automobiles &amp; parts titans 30 index for the five year period ended december 31, 2019. it shows the growth of a $100 investment on december 31, 2014, including the reinvestment of all dividends. base period years ending company / index 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ford motor company 100 95 87 95 62 81 s&amp;p 500 100 101 114 138 132 174 dow jones automobiles &amp; parts titans 30 100 99 97 118 92 105 25 item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities (continued) issuer purchases of securities we completed no share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2019. dividends the table below shows the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock for each quarterly period in 2018 and 2019: 2018 2019 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter dividends per share of ford common and class b stock $ 0.28 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 $ 0.15 subject to legally available funds, we intend to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding common stock and class b stock. the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash, and current and anticipated cash needs. item 6. selected financial data. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts): summary of income 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 total revenues $ 149,558 $ 151,800 $ 156,776 $ 160,338 $ 155,900 income/(loss) before income taxes $ 10,179 $ 6,784 $ 8,159 $ 4,345 $ (640 ) provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 2,854 2,184 402 650 (724 ) net income 7,325 4,600 7,757 3,695 84 less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (2 ) 11 26 18 37 net income attributable to ford motor company $ 7,327 $ 4,589 $ 7,731 $ 3,677 $ 47 earnings per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock average number of shares of ford common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 3,969 3,973 3,975 3,974 3,972 basic income $ 1.85 $ 1.16 $ 1.94 $ 0.93 $ 0.01 diluted income 1.83 1.15 1.93 0.92 0.01 cash dividends declared 0.60 0.85 0.65 0.73 0.60 balance sheet data at year end total assets $ 225,491 $ 238,510 $ 258,496 $ 256,540 $ 258,537 automotive debt $ 12,839 $ 15,907 $ 15,931 $ 13,547 $ 14,678 ford credit debt 119,417 126,464 137,757 140,066 140,029 other debt 598 599 599 600 600 total equity $ 29,223 $ 29,746 $ 35,606 $ 35,966 $ 33,230 26 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. revenue our automotive segment revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories. revenue is recorded when control is transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). for the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies with an obligation to repurchase the vehicle for a guaranteed amount, exercisable at the option of the customer. these contracts are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue upon transfer of control of the vehicle to the buyer. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant automotive legal entity in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our ford credit segment revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and ford credit segments occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the cost for these incentives is included in our estimate of variable consideration at the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. ford credit recognizes the incentive amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions between our automotive and ford credit segments. costs and expenses our income statement classifies our automotive segment total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 27 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: contribution costs these costs typically vary with production volume. these costs include material (including commodity), warranty, and freight and duty costs. structural costs these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. these costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and opeb costs. while contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift, or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. cost of sales and selling, administrative, and other expenses for full-year 2019 were $145.9 billion. our automotive segment's material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of these costs and expenses, representing in 2019 about two-thirds of the total amount. structural costs are the largest piece of the remaining balance. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. federal reserve lowered its policy interest rate three times in 2019, after nine increases over the course of the tightening cycle beginning in late 2015. central banks in other developed markets have also signaled the potential for rate cuts in response to recent global economic headwinds, extending the era of monetary policy easing that began with the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. the related shifts in capital flows have contributed to increased volatility for both developed and emerging market currencies globally. emerging markets also face differing inflation backdrops and, in some cases, exposure to commodity prices and political instability, contributing to unpredictable movements in the value of their exchange rates. in addition to direct impacts on the financial flows of global automotive companies, currency movements can also impact pricing of vehicles exported to overseas markets, most notably in the case of the japanese yen and korean won. in most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. however, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 139 million units exceeded global production by about 50 million units in 2019. while global production capacity rose by about 2 million units in 2019 compared with 2018, excess capacity rose by nearly 7 million units, including increases in north america, europe, and, most substantially, in china. in north america and europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production in 2019 increased to 30% and 33%, respectively. in china, the auto industry witnessed excess capacity at 104% in 2019, as industry sales remained below expectations due to weaker economic conditions there. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 50 million units per year, declining only gradually from current levels, during the period from 2020 to 2025. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to set prices. in north america, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to north america. in the future, chinese and indian manufacturers are expected to enter u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. in europe, the excess capacity situation has been exacerbated by the nominal reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. commodity and energy price changes. changes in market expectations for global demand, notably weaker growth in china, along with geopolitical tensions have generated volatility in energy prices, though they remain at a relatively low level compared with historical performance. oil prices are expected to remain volatile, and on a lower long-term trend than in prior commodity cycles. prices for other commodities have also been volatile, as fluctuating global demand and the threat of further tariff actions continues to impact prices despite some easing in global trade tensions at the start of this year. vehicle profitability. our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. in general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. for example, in north america, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 130% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. in addition, government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency (e.g., zev mandates and low emission zones) may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. trade policy. to the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in other markets. while we believe the long-term trend will support the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. the imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum coming into the united states in 2018 had a direct negative impact on costs for manufacturers in the u.s. market. in asia pacific, a weak yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the united states, europe, and other global markets by japanese manufacturers, and, over a period of time, contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. this is particularly likely in other asian countries, such as south korea. we will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. other economic factors. interest rates, notably mature market government bond yields, and inflation have remained lower than expected. at the same time, government deficits and debt remain at high levels in many major markets. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. 29 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2019 net income attributable to ford motor company was $47 million in 2019. company adjusted ebit was $6,379 million. net income includes certain items ( special items ) that are excluded from company adjusted ebit. these items are discussed in more detail in note 28 of the notes to the financial statements. we report special items separately to allow investors analyzing our results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating results. our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows (in millions): 2018 2019 global redesign europe excl. russia $ (309 ) $ (1,246 ) india (804 ) south america (65 ) (566 ) russia (357 ) china (101 ) separations and other (not included above) (163 ) (107 ) subtotal global redesign $ (537 ) $ (3,181 ) other items focus cancellation $ (16 ) $ (72 ) other, including transit connect customs ruling and chariot (40 ) (201 ) subtotal other items $ (56 ) $ (273 ) pension and opeb gain / (loss) pension and opeb remeasurement $ (851 ) $ (2,500 ) pension curtailment 15 (45 ) subtotal pension and opeb gain / (loss) $ (836 ) $ (2,545 ) total ebit special items $ (1,429 ) $ (5,999 ) cash effect of global redesign (incl. separations) $ (196 ) $ (911 ) tax special items* $ (88 ) $ (1,323 ) * includes related tax effect on special items and tax special items. we recorded $6 billion of special item charges in 2019. actions related to our global redesign accounted for $3.2 billion of the special items, including european restructuring, with cash effects of $911 million. special item charges also included $2.5 billion for pension and opeb remeasurement losses. the remeasurement loss did not have an impact on our cash in 2019. in note 28 of the notes to the financial statements, special items are reflected as a separate reconciling item, as opposed to being allocated among the automotive, mobility, and ford credit segments. this reflects the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources. 30 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) company key metrics the table below shows our full year 2019 key metrics for the company compared to a year ago. 2018 2019 h / (l) gaap financial measures cash flows from operating activities ($b) $ 15.0 $ 17.6 $ 2.6 revenue ($m) 160,338 155,900 (3)% net income ($m) 3,677 47 $ (3,630 ) net income margin (%) 2.3 % 0.0 % (2.3) ppts eps (diluted) $ 0.92 $ 0.01 $ (0.91 ) non-gaap financial measures * company adj. free cash flow ($b) $ 2.8 $ 2.8 $ company adj. ebit ($m) 7,002 6,379 (623 ) company adj. ebit margin (%) 4.4 % 4.1 % (0.3) ppts adjusted eps (diluted) $ 1.30 $ 1.19 $ (0.11 ) adjusted roic (trailing four qtrs) 7.1 % 7.8 % 0.7 ppts * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. for full year 2019, revenue was down 3 percent, or 1 percent excluding the impact of exchange, to $155.9 billion. in 2019 , our diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock was $0.01 and our diluted adjusted earnings per share was $1.19. net income margin was 0.0 percent in 2019 , down from 2.3 percent a year ago. company adjusted ebit margin was 4.1 percent in 2019 , down from 4.4 percent a year ago. the table below shows our full year 2019 net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit by segment (in millions). 2018 2019 h / (l) automotive $ 5,422 $ 4,926 $ (496 ) mobility (674 ) (1,186 ) (512 ) ford credit 2,627 2,998 371 corporate other (373 ) (359 ) 14 company adjusted ebit * 7,002 6,379 (623 ) interest on debt (1,228 ) (1,020 ) 208 special items (1,429 ) (5,999 ) (4,570 ) taxes / noncontrolling interests (668 ) 687 1,355 net income $ 3,677 $ 47 $ (3,630 ) * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. the $3.6 billion year-over-year decline in net income in 2019 is more than explained by the $6 billion of special item charges discussed in more detail above under results of operations. company adjusted ebit decreased about 9 percent year-over-year in 2019 , driven by higher investments in mobility and lower automotive ebit, offset partially by improved ford credit ebt. 31 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment the table below shows our full year 2019 automotive segment ebit by business unit (in millions). 2018 2019 h / (l) north america $ 7,607 $ 6,612 $ (995 ) south america (678 ) (704 ) (26 ) europe (398 ) (47 ) 351 china (1,545 ) (771 ) 774 asia pacific operations 443 (23 ) (466 ) middle east &amp; africa (7 ) (141 ) (134 ) automotive segment $ 5,422 $ 4,926 $ (496 ) the tables below and on the following pages provide full year 2019 key metrics and the change in full year 2019 ebit compared with full year 2018 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its regional business units. for a description of these causal factors, see definitions and information regarding automotive causal factors . 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 6.3 % 6.0 % (0.3) ppts wholesale units (000) 5,982 5,386 (596 ) revenue ($m) $ 148,294 $ 143,599 $ (4,695 ) ebit ($m) 5,422 4,926 (496 ) ebit margin (%) 3.7 % 3.4 % (0.3) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ 5,422 volume / mix (720 ) net pricing 3,093 cost (1,552 ) exchange (904 ) other (413 ) 2019 full year ebit $ 4,926 in 2019, wholesales in our automotive segment declined 596,000 units year-over-year, reflecting decreases in each business unit, while automotive revenue was down 3.1 percent from a year ago. our full year 2019 automotive segment ebit was $5 billion, down $496 million from a year ago, and ebit margin was 3.4 percent. favorable mix was more than offset by the impact of lower volume, including the effects of new product launches. we had higher net pricing across most business units. costs were higher, driven by higher material and warranty costs, while structural costs, excluding pension and opeb, were lower, primarily as a result of improved fitness and global redesign actions. exchange was unfavorable, and other adverse impacts included uaw contract ratification costs. 32 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 13.4 % 13.2 % (0.2) ppts wholesale units (000) 2,920 2,765 (155 ) revenue ($m) $ 96,617 $ 98,053 $ 1,436 ebit ($m) 7,607 6,612 (995 ) ebit margin (%) 7.9 % 6.7 % (1.2) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ 7,607 volume / mix (241 ) net pricing 1,910 cost (1,865 ) exchange (174 ) other (625 ) 2019 full year ebit $ 6,612 in north america, 2019 wholesales declined 5 percent from a year ago, driven by the impact of major product launches. full year 2019 revenue increased 1 percent year-over-year, driven by improved mix and higher net pricing, offset partially by lower volume. north america's 2019 ebit decreased 13 percent from a year ago with an ebit margin of 6.7 percent, driven by uaw contract-related bonuses, higher warranty expenses, and lower wholesales. higher net pricing and favorable mix were partial offsets. south america 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 8.3% 7.2% (1.1) ppts wholesale units (000) 365 295 (70 ) revenue ($m) $ 5,288 $ 3,893 $ (1,395 ) ebit ($m) (678 ) (704 ) (26 ) ebit margin (%) (12.8 )% (18.1 )% (5.2) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ (678 ) volume / mix (180 ) net pricing 626 cost (350 ) exchange (175 ) other 53 2019 full year ebit $ (704 ) in south america, 2019 wholesales declined 19 percent from a year ago, driven by the discontinuation of heavy trucks, fiesta, and focus. full year 2019 revenue declined 26 percent year over year, driven by lower volume and adverse exchange. south america's 2019 ebit loss of $704 million was 4 percent higher than a year ago, driven by lower wholesales. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 7.2% 6.8% (0.4) ppts wholesale units* (000) 1,533 1,418 (115 ) revenue ($m) $ 31,272 $ 28,627 $ (2,645 ) ebit ($m) (398 ) (47 ) 351 ebit margin (%) (1.3)% (0.2)% 1.1 ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ (398 ) volume / mix (124 ) net pricing 452 cost (25 ) exchange (232 ) other 280 2019 full year ebit $ (47 ) * includes ford brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliate in turkey (about 44,000 units in 2018 and 34,000 in 2019); revenue does not include these sales. in europe, 2019 wholesales declined 8 percent from a year ago, driven by lower share from planned actions to drive gross margin and improve ebit. full year 2019 revenue declined 8 percent year-over-year, driven by adverse exchange and planned lower share from our business redesign. europe's 2019 ebit loss improved $351 million year-over-year, driven by higher net pricing and lower structural costs. china 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 2.9% 2.2% (0.7) ppts wholesale units* (000) 732 535 (197 ) revenue ($m) $ 4,619 $ 3,615 $ (1,004 ) ebit ($m) (1,545 ) (771 ) 774 ebit margin (%) (33.4)% (21.3)% 12.1 ppts * wholesale units include ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates; revenue does not include these sales. change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ (1,545 ) volume / mix 7 net pricing 61 cost 612 exchange 143 other (49 ) 2019 full year ebit $ (771 ) in china, 2019 wholesales declined 27 percent from a year ago, driven by lower joint venture volumes. full year 2019 consolidated revenue declined 22 percent year-over-year, driven primarily by lower component sales to our joint ventures in china and lower volume. china's 2019 ebit loss narrowed by 50 percent year-over-year, driven by lower structural costs, favorable exchange, lower tariffs, and higher net pricing. 34 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific operations 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 1.9% 1.7% (0.2) ppts wholesale units* (000) 323 279 (44 ) revenue ($m) $ 7,811 $ 7,017 $ (794 ) ebit ($m) 443 (23 ) (466 ) ebit margin (%) 5.7% (0.3)% (6.0) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ 443 volume / mix (221 ) net pricing (25 ) cost 124 exchange (281 ) other (63 ) 2019 full year ebit $ (23 ) in our asia pacific operations, 2019 wholesales declined 14 percent from a year ago, driven by lower share and industry. full year 2019 revenue declined 10 percent year-over-year, driven by lower volume. asia pacific operations' 2019 ebit was $466 million lower than a year ago, with a $23 million loss driven by adverse exchange and unfavorable market factors, offset partially by lower costs. the adverse exchange was driven by the australian dollar and thai baht. middle east &amp; africa 2018 2019 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 3.0% 3.2% 0.2 ppts wholesale units* (000) 109 94 (15 ) revenue ($m) $ 2,688 $ 2,392 $ (296 ) ebit ($m) (7 ) (141 ) (134 ) ebit margin (%) (0.3)% (5.9)% (5.6) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebit $ (7 ) volume / mix 39 net pricing 70 cost (49 ) exchange (184 ) other (10 ) 2019 full year ebit $ (141 ) in middle east &amp; africa, 2019 wholesales declined 14 percent from a year ago, driven by lower share in south africa. full year 2019 revenue declined 11 percent year-over-year, driven by lower volume and adverse exchange. middle east &amp; africa's 2019 ebit loss was $134 million higher than a year ago, primarily driven by adverse exchange, offset partially by industry pricing. the adverse exchange was primarily driven by the south african rand. 35 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) definitions and information regarding automotive causal factors in general, we measure year-over-year change in automotive segment ebit using the causal factors listed below, with net pricing and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange: market factors (exclude the impact of unconsolidated affiliate wholesales): volume and mix primarily measures ebit variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average contribution margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the ebit variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line net pricing primarily measures ebit variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, special lease offers, and stock adjustments on dealer inventory cost: contribution costs primarily measures ebit variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs structural costs primarily measures ebit variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. structural costs include the following cost categories: manufacturing, including volume-related - consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), and new product launch expense. these costs could be affected by volume for operating pattern actions such as overtime, attendance, line speed, and shift schedules engineering consists primarily of costs for engineering personnel, prototype materials, testing, and outside engineering services spending-related consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases advertising and sales promotions includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows administrative and selling includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs pension and opeb consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs exchange primarily measures ebit variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging other includes a variety of items, such as parts and services earnings, royalties, government incentives, and compensation-related changes in addition, definitions and calculations used in this report include: wholesales and revenue wholesale unit volumes include all ford and lincoln badged units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our china joint venture, jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ), that are sold to dealerships. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue industry volume and market share based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy duty trucks saar seasonally adjusted annual rate 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) mobility segment our mobility segment primarily includes development costs related to our autonomous vehicles and our investment in mobility through ford smart mobility llc ( fsm ). autonomous vehicles includes self-driving systems development and vehicle integration, autonomous vehicle research and advanced engineering, autonomous vehicle transportation-as-a-service network development, user experience, and business strategy and business development teams. fsm designs and builds mobility products and subscription and other services on its own, and collaborates with service providers and technology companies. in 2019, we began recording in the mobility segment subscription related income previously reported in the automotive segment. this income is generated from services managed in our mobility segment. in our mobility segment, our 2019 ebit loss was $1.2 billion, a $512 million higher loss than a year ago. our strategic investments in mobility in 2019 increased by more than 75 percent year-over-year as we continued to expand our capabilities in mobility and autonomous vehicles. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit segment the tables below provide full year 2019 key metrics and the change in full year 2019 ebt compared with full year 2018 by causal factor for the ford credit segment. for a description of these causal factors, see definitions and information regarding ford credit causal factors . 2018 2019 h / (l) gaap financial measures net receivables ($b) $ 146 $ 142 (3 )% loss-to-receivables* (bps) 55 52 (3 ) auction values** $ 18,540 $ 18,150 (2 )% ebt ($m) 2,627 2,998 $ 371 roe (%) 14 % 15 % 1 ppt other balance sheet metrics debt ($b) $ 140 $ 140 net liquidity ($b) 27 33 22 % financial statement leverage (to 1) 9.4 9.8 0.4 * u.s. retail financing only, previously included both retail financing and operating leases. ** u.s. 36-month off-lease auction values at full-year 2019 mix. 2018 2019 h / (l) non-gaap financial measures managed receivables* ($b) $ 155 $ 152 (2 )% managed leverage** (to 1) 8.8 8.9 0.1 * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. ** see liquidity and capital resources - ford credit segment section for reconciliation to gaap. change in ebt by causal factor (in millions) 2018 full year ebt $ 2,627 volume / mix (38 ) financing margin (86 ) credit loss 127 lease residual 249 exchange (71 ) other 190 2019 full year ebt $ 2,998 ford credit's loss metrics reflected healthy and stable consumer credit conditions, and auction values for off-lease vehicles were slightly better than expected. we expect full year 2020 auction values to be about 5 percent lower compared with 2019 at a constant mix, based on third party assessments. receivables at december 31, 2019 were lower year-over-year. ford credit delivered $3 billion of ebt in 2019, a 14 percent increase from a year ago, driven by favorable lease residual, credit loss, and derivatives performance. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) definitions and information regarding ford credit causal factors. in general, we measure year-over-year changes in ford credit's ebt using the causal factors listed below: volume and mix: volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average managed receivables at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin) at prior period exchange rates. volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicles sold and leased, the extent to which ford credit purchases retail financing and operating lease contracts, the extent to which ford credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through ford credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding mix primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by period-over-period changes in the composition of ford credit's average managed receivables by product within each region financing margin: financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average managed receivables at prior period exchange rates. this calculation is performed at the product and country level and then aggregated. financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average managed receivables for the same period financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management credit loss: credit loss is the change in the provision for credit losses at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of ford credit's present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. for additional information, refer to the critical accounting estimates - allowance for credit losses section of item 7 of part ii of our 2019 form 10-k report as of january 1, 2019, we changed our accounting method for reporting early termination losses related to customer defaults on operating leases. previously, we presented the early termination loss reserve on operating leases due to customer default events as part of the allowance for credit losses which reduces net investment in operating leases on the balance sheet. we now consider the effects of operating lease early terminations when determining depreciation estimates, which are included as part of accumulated depreciation within net investment in operating leases on the balance sheet. we believe this change in accounting method is preferable as the characterization of these changes is better reflected as depreciation. we have reclassified prior period amounts to reflect these changes. lease residual: lease residual measures changes to residual performance at prior period exchange rates. for analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to ford credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value (which includes both base and accumulated supplemental depreciation) of the vehicles sold. changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in ford credit's estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term, and changes in ford credit's estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold. with the change in accounting method discussed above, accumulated depreciation now reflects early termination losses on operating leases due to customer default events for all periods presented. for additional information, refer to the critical accounting estimates - accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases section of item 7 of part ii of our 2019 form 10-k report exchange: reflects changes in ebt driven by the effects of converting functional currency income to u.s. dollars 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) other: primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, insurance expenses, and other income at prior period exchange rates changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts in general, other income changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates) and other miscellaneous items in addition, the following definitions and calculations apply to ford credit when used in this report: cash (as shown in the funding structure, liquidity, and leverage tables) cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, excluding amounts related to insurance activities debt (as shown in the key metrics and leverage tables) - debt on ford credit's balance sheet. includes debt issued in securitizations and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. ford credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions earnings before taxes (ebt ) reflects ford credit's income before income taxes return on equity (roe ) (as shown in the key metrics table) reflects return on equity calculated by annualizing net income for the period and dividing by monthly average equity for the period securitization cash (as shown in the liquidity table) cash held for the benefit of the securitization investors (for example, a reserve fund) securitizations (as shown in the public term funding plan table) public securitization transactions, rule 144a offerings sponsored by ford credit, and widely distributed offerings by ford credit canada term asset-backed securities (as shown in the funding structure table) obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements total net receivables (as shown in the key metrics and ford credit net receivables reconciliation to managed receivables tables) includes finance receivables (retail financing and wholesale) sold for legal purposes and net investment in operating leases included in securitization transactions that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. these receivables and operating leases are reported on ford credit's balance sheet and are available only for payment of the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay the other obligations of ford credit or the claims of ford credit's other creditors 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) corporate other corporate other primarily includes corporate governance expenses, interest income (excluding interest earned on our extended service contract portfolio that is included in our automotive segment) and gains and losses from our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and other investments, and foreign exchange derivatives gains and losses associated with intercompany lending. corporate governance expenses are primarily administrative, delivering benefit on behalf of the global enterprise, and are not allocated to specific automotive business units or operating segments. these include expenses related to setting and directing global policy, providing oversight and stewardship, and promoting the company's interests. our full year 2019 corporate other results were a $359 million loss, compared with a $373 million loss a year ago. the year-over-year improvement was driven by fair market value adjustments offset partially by higher interest expense on income taxes. interest on debt interest on debt consists of interest expense on automotive and other debt. full year 2019 interest expense on automotive and other debt was $1 billion, which is $208 million lower than a year ago, more than explained by lower foreign debt interest expense, reflecting our repayment of higher-cost affiliate debt as discussed in the liquidity and capital resources section below, as well as the extinguishment of ford sollers debt . taxes our provision for/(benefit from) income taxes for full year 2019 was a $724 million benefit, reflecting an effective tax rate of 113%. this includes a one-time benefit arising from restructuring in our european operations. our full year 2019 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 11.2%. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations - 2018 net income attributable to ford was $3.7 billion in 2018. company adjusted ebit was $7 billion. our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows (in millions): 2017 2018 pension and opeb gain / (loss) pension and opeb remeasurement $ (162 ) $ (851 ) pension curtailment 354 15 total pension and opeb gain / (loss) $ 192 $ (836 ) separation-related actions $ (297 ) $ (537 ) other items san luis potosi plant cancellation $ 41 $ next-generation focus footprint change (225 ) (9 ) focus cancellation (7 ) chariot closure (40 ) total other items $ (184 ) $ (56 ) total pre-tax special items $ (289 ) $ (1,429 ) tax special items $ 897 $ (88 ) we recorded $1.4 billion of special item charges in 2018, including $851 million for pension and opeb remeasurement losses and $537 million for separation-related actions from our global redesign. company key metrics the table below shows our full year 2018 key metrics for the company compared with full year 2017 . 2017 2018 h / (l) gaap financial measures cash flows from operating activities ($b) $ 18.1 $ 15.0 $ (3.1 ) revenue ($m) 156,776 160,338 2 % net income ($m) 7,731 3,677 $ (4,054 ) net income margin (%) 4.9 % 2.3 % (2.6) ppts eps (diluted) $ 1.93 $ 0.92 $ (1.01 ) non-gaap financial measures * company adj. free cash flow ($b) $ 4.2 $ 2.8 $ (1.4 ) company adj. ebit ($m) 9,638 7,002 (2,636 ) company adj. ebit margin (%) 6.1 % 4.4 % (1.7) ppts adjusted eps (diluted) $ 1.78 $ 1.30 $ (0.48 ) adjusted roic (trailing four qtrs) 11.8 % 7.1 % (4.7) ppts * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. for full year 2018, revenue grew 2 percent to $160.3 billion. in 2018, our diluted earnings per share of common and class b stock was $0.92 and our diluted adjusted earnings per share was $1.30. net income margin was 2.3 percent and company adjusted ebit margin was 4.4 percent for full year 2018, down 2.6 percentage points and 1.7 percentage points, respectively, from 2017. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the table below shows our full year 2018 net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit by segment (in millions). 2017 2018 h / (l) automotive $ 8,084 $ 5,422 $ (2,662 ) mobility (299 ) (674 ) (375 ) ford credit 2,310 2,627 317 corporate other (457 ) (373 ) 84 company adjusted ebit * 9,638 7,002 (2,636 ) interest on debt (1,190 ) (1,228 ) (38 ) special items (289 ) (1,429 ) (1,140 ) taxes / noncontrolling interests (428 ) (668 ) (240 ) net income $ 7,731 $ 3,677 $ (4,054 ) * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. net income attributable to ford and company adjusted ebit were driven by our automotive and ford credit segments. mobility and corporate other were losses. the year-over-year decline in net income was primarily due to the lower automotive ebit, the larger mark-to-market adjustment for global pension and opeb plans due to adverse financial market conditions that occurred late in 2018, and personnel separation-related actions in north america, south america, and europe. the lower automotive ebit fully explains the $2.6 billion decline in company adjusted ebit, compared with 2017. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive segment the table below shows our full year 2018 automotive segment ebit by business unit (in millions). 2017 2018 h / (l) north america $ 8,057 $ 7,607 $ (450 ) south america (753 ) (678 ) 75 europe 367 (398 ) (765 ) china 152 (1,545 ) (1,697 ) asia pacific operations 507 443 (64 ) middle east &amp; africa (246 ) (7 ) 239 automotive segment $ 8,084 $ 5,422 $ (2,662 ) the tables below and on the following pages provide full year 2018 key metrics and the change in full year 2018 ebit compared with full year 2017 by causal factor for our automotive segment and its regional business units. for a description of these causal factors, see definitions and information regarding automotive causal factors. 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 7.0 % 6.3 % (0.7) ppts wholesale units (000) 6,607 5,982 (625 ) revenue ($m) $ 145,653 $ 148,294 $ 2,641 ebit ($m) 8,084 5,422 (2,662 ) ebit margin (%) 5.6 % 3.7 % (1.9) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ 8,084 volume / mix 1,032 net pricing 1,971 cost (3,965 ) exchange (1,010 ) other (690 ) 2018 full year ebit $ 5,422 north america more than explained the automotive segment's full year 2018 profitability. automotive ebit benefited from the largest improvement in market factors since 2015. volume / mix as well as net pricing were improved compared to 2017. this benefit was more than offset by cost, including higher net product costs as we were entering a major product refresh cycle, higher tariff-related effects of $750 million, higher commodities costs of $1.1 billion unrelated to tariff effects, and higher warranty costs, including $775 million of costs related to the takata recalls announced in 2017 in north america. exchange was unfavorable and other adverse impacts included lower joint venture equity income in china. compared to 2017, the decline in automotive ebit was essentially due to china and europe. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) north america 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 13.9 % 13.4 % (0.5) ppts wholesale units (000) 2,967 2,920 (47 ) revenue ($m) $ 93,481 $ 96,617 $ 3,136 ebit ($m) 8,057 7,607 (450 ) ebit margin (%) 8.6 % 7.9 % (0.7) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ 8,057 volume / mix 1,587 net pricing 425 cost (3,046 ) exchange (11 ) other 595 2018 full year ebit $ 7,607 north america's 2018 ebit declined $450 million year-over-year, driven by higher net product costs, tariff-related effects, commodities costs, and warranty costs described above under automotive segment. south america 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 8.9% 8.3% (0.6) ppts wholesale units (000) 373 365 (8 ) revenue ($m) $ 5,841 $ 5,288 $ (553 ) ebit ($m) (753 ) (678 ) 75 ebit margin (%) (12.9)% (12.8)% 0.1 ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ (753 ) volume / mix 61 net pricing 821 cost (423 ) exchange (451 ) other 67 2018 full year ebit $ (678 ) in 2018, south america delivered an ebit improvement of $75 million compared to 2017. 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) europe 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 7.5% 7.2% (0.3) ppts wholesale units* (000) 1,582 1,533 (49 ) revenue ($m) $ 29,637 $ 31,272 $ 1,635 ebit ($m) 367 (398 ) (765 ) ebit margin (%) 1.2% (1.3)% (2.5) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ 367 volume / mix (299 ) net pricing 916 cost (770 ) exchange (418 ) other (194 ) 2018 full year ebit $ (398 ) * includes ford brand vehicles produced and sold by our unconsolidated affiliate in turkey (about 78,000 units in 2017 and 44,000 units in 2018). revenue does not include these sales. europe saw a year-over-year ebit decline of $765 million in 2018. china 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 4.2% 2.9% (1.3) ppts wholesale units* (000) 1,235 732 (503 ) revenue ($m) $ 6,709 $ 4,619 $ (2,090 ) ebit ($m) 152 (1,545 ) (1,697 ) ebit margin (%) 2.3% (33.4)% (35.7) ppts * wholesale units include ford brand and jmc brand vehicles produced and sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates. revenue does not include these sales. change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ 152 volume / mix (213 ) net pricing (285 ) cost 72 joint ventures (1,025 ) exchange 63 other (309 ) 2018 full year ebit $ (1,545 ) china's 2018 ebit declined $1.7 billion from 2017. the decline was driven by a $1.3 billion reduction in net equity income and royalties from our china joint ventures and lower net pricing on explorer and lincoln imports. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) asia pacific operations 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 2.0 % 1.9 % (0.1) ppts wholesale units* (000) 331 323 (8 ) revenue ($m) $ 7,346 $ 7,811 $ 465 ebit ($m) 507 443 (64 ) ebit margin (%) 6.9 % 5.7 % (1.2) ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ 507 volume / mix (146 ) net pricing 35 cost 106 exchange (262 ) other 203 2018 full year ebit $ 443 asia pacific operations' 2018 ebit declined $64 million from 2017. the decline was driven by adverse exchange, primarily the thai baht and australian dollar. middle east &amp; africa 2017 2018 h / (l) key metrics market share (%) 3.8% 3.0% (0.8) ppts wholesale units* (000) 119 109 (10 ) revenue ($m) $ 2,639 $ 2,688 $ 49 ebit ($m) (246 ) (7 ) 239 ebit margin (%) (9.3 )% (0.3)% 9.0 ppts change in ebit by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebit $ (246 ) volume / mix 42 net pricing 59 cost 96 exchange 68 other (26 ) 2018 full year ebit $ (7 ) middle east &amp; africa was nearly breakeven in 2018, with a year-over-year ebit improvement of $239 million. mobility segment in our mobility segment, our 2018 ebit loss was $674 million, a $375 million higher loss than in 2017 , due to increased investments for autonomous vehicle business development and mobility services. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit segment the tables below provide full year 2018 key metrics and the change in full year 2018 ebt compared with full year 2017 by causal factor for the ford credit segment. 2017 2018 h / (l) gaap financial measures net receivables ($b) $ 143 $ 146 3 % loss-to-receivables* (bps) 62 55 (7 ) auction values** $ 17,815 $ 18,540 4 % ebt ($m) 2,310 2,627 $ 317 roe (%) 22 % 14 % (8) ppts other balance sheet metrics debt ($b) $ 138 $ 140 2 % net liquidity ($b) 30 27 (7 )% financial statement leverage (to 1) 8.7 9.4 0.7 * u.s. retail and lease, previously included both retail financing and operating leases. ** u.s. 36-month off-lease auction values at full year 2018 mix. 2017 2018 h / (l) non-gaap financial measures managed receivables* ($b) $ 151 $ 155 3 % managed leverage** (to 1) 8.0 8.8 0.8 * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. ** see liquidity and capital resources - ford credit segment section for reconciliation to gaap. change in ebt by causal factor (in millions) 2017 full year ebt $ 2,310 volume / mix 262 financing margin (69 ) credit loss 57 lease residual 320 exchange (9 ) other (244 ) 2018 full year ebt $ 2,627 ford credit generated a full year 2018 ebt of $2.6 billion, $317 million higher than 2017. ford credit's ebt improvement was led by favorable lease residual performance and favorable volume and mix. this was offset, in part, by unfavorable derivatives market valuation. corporate other our full year 2018 corporate other results were a $373 million loss, compared with a $457 million loss in 2017 . this year-over-year improvement was driven by higher interest income and net gains on cash equivalents and marketable securities, offset partially by an increase in corporate governance costs. interest on debt our full year 2018 interest expense on automotive and other debt was $1.2 billion, $38 million higher than in 2017 , reflecting primarily higher foreign debt interest expense. taxes our provision for income taxes for full year 2018 was $650 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 15.0%. our full year 2018 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 9.7%. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources at december 31, 2019 , total balance sheet cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash (including ford credit) was $34.9 billion. we consider our key balance sheet metrics to be: (i) company cash, which includes cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash, excluding ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash; and (ii) company liquidity, which includes company cash (less restricted cash) and total available committed credit lines, excluding ford credit's total available committed credit lines. company excluding ford credit december 31, 2018 december 31, 2019 balance sheet ($b) company cash $ 23.1 $ 22.3 liquidity 34.2 35.4 debt $ (14.1 ) $ (15.3 ) cash net of debt 8.9 7.0 pension funded status ($b) funded plans $ (0.3 ) $ (0.4 ) unfunded plans (6.0 ) (6.4 ) total global pension $ (6.3 ) $ (6.8 ) total funded status opeb $ (5.6 ) $ (6.1 ) liquidity . one of our key priorities is to maintain a strong balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to invest in and grow our business. based on our planning assumptions, we believe we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products and services, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a regular dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment. we will continue to be opportunistic in evaluating sources of capital while maintaining strong balance sheet discipline. at december 31, 2019 , we had $22.3 billion of company cash, with 90% held by consolidated entities domiciled in the united states. to be prepared for an economic downturn, we target an ongoing company cash balance at or above $20 billion. we expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to: (i) future cash flow expectations, such as for investments in future opportunities, capital investments, debt maturities, pension contributions, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment. our company cash investments primarily include u.s. department of treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, investment-grade corporate securities, investment-grade commercial paper, and debt obligations of a select group of non-u.s. governments, non-u.s. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments is approximately one year and adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our company cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. in addition to our company cash target, we also target to maintain an additional $10 billion of liquidity available under our corporate credit facility to further protect our automotive business against a more severe economic downturn and other potential exogenous shocks. we regularly evaluate the appropriate long-term target for total company liquidity, which is presently $30 billion including company cash and the automotive portion of the corporate credit facility, an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. at december 31, 2019 , we had $35.4 billion of company liquidity, an increase of $1.2 billion from december 31, 2018, reflecting the addition of our supplemental credit facility (described below in available credit lines ). we may reduce our company cash and liquidity targets over time, based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) changes in company cash. in managing our business, we classify changes in company cash into operating and non-operating items. operating items include: company adjusted ebit excluding ford credit ebt, capital spending, depreciation and tooling amortization, changes in working capital, ford credit distributions, and all other and timing differences. non-operating items include: global redesign (including separation payments), changes in automotive and other debt, contributions to funded pension plans, shareholder distributions, and other items (including acquisitions and divestitures and other transactions with ford credit). with respect to changes in working capital, in general we carry relatively low automotive segment trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by ford credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs shortly after being produced. in contrast, our automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. as a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate when wholesale volumes sharply decrease. these working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and december shutdown periods when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. the net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods. changes in company cash excluding ford credit are summarized below (in billions): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2018 december 31, 2019 company excluding ford credit company adjusted ebit* excluding ford credit $ 7.3 $ 4.4 $ 3.4 capital spending $ (7.0 ) $ (7.7 ) $ (7.6 ) depreciation and tooling amortization 5.0 5.4 5.5 net spending $ (2.0 ) $ (2.4 ) $ (2.1 ) changes in working capital (0.9 ) (0.6 ) ford credit distributions 0.4 2.7 2.9 all other and timing differences (1.5 ) (1.1 ) (0.8 ) company adjusted free cash flow* $ 4.2 $ 2.8 $ 2.8 global redesign (including separations) (0.3 ) (0.2 ) (0.9 ) changes in debt (0.4 ) (1.8 ) 1.1 funded pension contributions (1.4 ) (0.4 ) (0.7 ) shareholder distributions (2.7 ) (3.1 ) (2.6 ) all other (including acquisitions and divestitures) (0.3 ) (0.7 ) (0.3 ) change in cash $ (1.0 ) $ (3.4 ) $ (0.8 ) * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. * note: numbers may not sum due to rounding. as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows, our full year 2019 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities was up $2.6 billion year-over-year more than explained by higher ford credit operating cash flows. company adjusted free cash flow was flat year-over-year, primarily reflecting improvement in working capital, lower capital spending, and higher distributions from ford credit, offset by uaw contract-related bonuses. capital spending of $7.6 billion in 2019 was down 2 percent compared with the prior year. ongoing capital spending to support product development, growth, and infrastructure is expected to decline further and be in the range of $6.8 billion to $7.3 billion in 2020. full year 2019 working capital was $617 million negative, more than explained by lower trade payables. full year 2019 all other and timing differences were negative $825 million, reflecting assorted timing differences, interest payments on automotive and other debt, and cash taxes. shareholder distributions (including dividends and anti-dilutive share repurchases) were $2.6 billion in 2019 . 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) available credit lines . total company committed credit lines excluding ford credit at december 31, 2019 were $14.9 billion, consisting of $10.4 billion of our corporate credit facility, $3.5 billion of our supplemental credit facility, and $1 billion of local credit facilities. at december 31, 2019 , the utilized portion of the corporate credit facility was $27 million, representing amounts utilized for letters of credit. at december 31, 2019 , the utilized portion of the local credit facilities was $200 million. the utilized portion of our supplemental credit facility is described below . lenders under our corporate credit facility have commitments to us totaling $13.4 billion, with 25% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2022 and 75% of the commitments maturing on april 30, 2024. we have allocated $3 billion of commitments to ford credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its liquidity. we would guarantee any borrowings by ford credit under the corporate credit facility. the corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed-charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. the corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility. if our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p, the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required. in 2019, we entered into a $3.5 billion supplemental credit facility, further strengthening our liquidity and providing additional financial flexibility. the terms and conditions of the supplemental credit facility are consistent with our corporate credit facility; however, unlike our corporate credit facility, the supplemental facility is intended to be utilized and includes a $2 billion revolving facility maturing on april 30, 2022 and a $1.5 billion delayed draw term loan facility maturing on december 31, 2022. we drew all $1.5 billion under the term loan facility in 2019, and all $2 billion under the supplemental revolving facility was available for use as of december 31, 2019. debt. as shown in note 20 of the notes to the financial statements, at december 31, 2019 , company debt excluding ford credit was $15.3 billion , including automotive debt of $ 14.7 billion . both balances were $1.1 billion higher than at december 31, 2018, and include the $1.5 billion drawn under the term loan facility described above and our $750 million and $800 million unsecured debt (retail bond) issuances in the second quarter and fourth quarter of 2019, respectively. the impact of these transactions is leverage neutral after taking into consideration debt reduction actions we took in late 2018 and in 2019 to repay higher-cost affiliate debt as well as automotive debt maturities over the next several quarters in 2020. u.s. department of energy ( doe ) advanced technology vehicle manufacturer ( atvm ) incentive program. see note 20 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding the atvm loan. leverage. we manage company debt (excluding ford credit) levels with a leverage framework to maintain investment grade credit ratings through a normal business cycle. the leverage framework includes a ratio of total company debt (excluding ford credit), underfunded pension liabilities, operating leases, and other adjustments, divided by company adjusted ebit (excluding ford credit ebt), and further adjusted to exclude depreciation and tooling amortization (excluding ford credit). ford credit's leverage is calculated as a separate business as described in the liquidity - ford credit segment section of item 7. ford credit is self-funding and its debt, which is used to fund its operations, is separate from our automotive and other debt. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit segment funding overview. ford credit's primary funding objective is to be well capitalized with a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. ford credit's funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. ford credit's liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. ford credit annually stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it can continue to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles. funding sources. ford credit's funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). ford credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors and other financial institutions in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of demand notes under its ford interest advantage program, through the retail deposit program at fce bank plc ( fce ), and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states and other international markets. at december 31, 2019, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, and fce deposits was $7 billion. at december 31, 2019, the principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was $4 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the united states. ford credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations. the following table shows funding for ford credit's managed receivables (in billions): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2018 december 31, 2019 funding structure term debt (incl. bank borrowings) $ 75 $ 70 $ 73 term asset-backed securities 53 60 57 commercial paper 5 4 4 ford interest advantage / deposits 5 6 7 other 9 10 9 equity 16 15 14 adjustments for cash (12 ) (10 ) (12 ) total managed receivables * $ 151 $ 155 $ 152 securitized funding as percent of managed receivables 35 % 39 % 38 % * see non-gaap financial measure reconciliations section for reconciliation to gaap. managed receivables were $152 billion at december 31, 2019 and were funded primarily with term debt and term asset-backed securities. securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables was 38% . ford credit targets a mix of securitized funding between 35% and 40%. the calendarization of the funding plan will result in quarterly fluctuations of the securitized funding percentage. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) public term funding plan. the following table shows ford credit's issuances for full-year 2017 , 2018 , and 2019 , and planned issuances for full-year 2020 , excluding short-term funding programs (in billions): 2017 actual 2018 actual 2019 actual 2020 forecast unsecured - currency of issuance (usd equivalent) usd $ 10 $ 6 $ 11 $ 7 - 10 cad 2 1 1 1 - 2 eur / gpb 3 4 5 3 - 4 other 1 1 1 1 total unsecured $ 16 $ 13 $ 17 $ 12 - 17 securitizations* 15 14 14 12 - 14 total public $ 32 $ 27 $ 31 $ 24 - 31 * see ford credit segment section for definitions. * note: numbers may not sum due to rounding. ford credit's total unsecured public term funding plan is categorized by currency of issuance. in 2019 , ford credit completed $31 billion of public term funding. for 2020, ford credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $24 billion to $31 billion. ford credit plans to continue issuing its eurocurrency-denominated (e.g., euro and sterling) public unsecured debt from the united states. through february 3, 2020, ford credit has completed $3.5 billion of public term issuances. liquidity. the following table shows ford credit's liquidity sources and utilization (in billions): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2018 december 31, 2019 liquidity sources* cash $ 11.8 $ 10.2 $ 11.7 committed asset-backed facilities 33.4 35.4 36.6 other unsecured credit facilities 3.3 3.0 3.0 ford corporate credit facility allocation 3.0 3.0 3.0 total liquidity sources $ 51.5 $ 51.6 $ 54.3 utilization of liquidity* securitization cash $ (3.8 ) $ (3.0 ) $ (3.5 ) committed asset-backed facilities (17.2 ) (20.7 ) (17.3 ) other unsecured credit facilities (1.1 ) (0.7 ) (0.8 ) ford corporate credit facility allocation total utilization of liquidity $ (22.1 ) $ (24.4 ) $ (21.6 ) gross liquidity $ 29.4 $ 27.2 $ 32.7 adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.4 net liquidity available for use $ 29.5 $ 27.3 $ 33.1 * see definitions and information regarding ford credit causal factors section. ford credit's net liquidity available for use will fluctuate quarterly based on factors including near-term debt maturities, receivable growth, and timing of funding transactions. ford credit targets liquidity of about $25 billion. at december 31, 2019 , ford credit's net liquidity available for use was $33.1 billion , $5.8 billion higher than year-end 2018. ford credit's sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset-backed facilities, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate credit facility allocation. at december 31, 2019 , ford credit's liquidity sources including cash totaled $54.3 billion , up $2.7 billion from year-end 2018. 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. ford credit ensures its cumulative debt maturities have a longer tenor than its cumulative asset maturities. this positive maturity profile is intended to provide ford credit with additional liquidity after all of its assets have been funded. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure. the table below shows the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage and managed leverage (in billions): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2018 december 31, 2019 leverage calculation debt* $ 137.8 $ 140.1 $ 140.0 adjustments for cash (11.8 ) (10.2 ) (11.7 ) adjustments for derivative accounting* 0.2 (0.5 ) total adjusted debt $ 126.0 $ 130.1 $ 127.8 equity** $ 15.9 $ 15.0 $ 14.3 adjustments for derivative accounting* (0.1 ) (0.2 ) total adjusted equity $ 15.8 $ 14.8 $ 14.3 financial statement leverage (to 1) (gaap) 8.7 9.4 9.8 managed leverage (to 1) (non-gaap) 8.0 8.8 8.9 * related primarily to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. ** total shareholder's interest reported on ford credit's balance sheet. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2019 , ford credit's financial statement leverage was 9.8:1, and managed leverage was 8.9:1. ford credit targets managed leverage in the range of 8:1 to 9:1. 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total company pension plan contributions and strategy. our strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. the strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. going forward, we expect to: limit our pension contributions to offset ongoing service cost or meet regulatory requirements, if any; maintain target asset allocation of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which better matches plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and evaluate strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as plan design changes, curtailments, or settlements 2018 2019 2019 b / (w) 2018 pension funded status ($b) u.s. plans $ (2.5 ) $ (1.4 ) $ 1.1 non-u.s. plans (3.8 ) (5.4 ) (1.6 ) total global pension $ (6.3 ) $ (6.8 ) $ (0.5 ) year-end discount rate (weighted average) u.s. plans 4.29% 3.32% (0.97) ppts non-u.s. plans 2.48% 1.74% (0.74) ppts actual asset returns u.s. plans (3.72)% 20.43% 24.15 ppts non-u.s. plans (0.10)% 10.72% 10.82 ppts pension - funded plans only ($b) funded status $ (0.3 ) $ (0.4 ) $ (0.1 ) contributions for funded plans 0.4 0.7 0.3 worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $6.8 billion at december 31, 2019 , a deterioration of $536 million from december 31, 2018, primarily as a result of lower discount rates, offset partially by higher asset returns. of the $6.8 billion underfunded status at year-end 2019 , $6.4 billion is associated with our unfunded plans. these are pay as you go, with benefits paid from company cash. these unfunded plans primarily include certain plans in germany, and u.s. defined benefit plans for senior management. the fixed income mix in our u.s. plans at year-end 2019 was 81%, three percentage points higher than year-end 2018. the fixed income mix in our non-u.s. plans at year-end 2019 was 86%, three percentage points higher than year-end 2018. in 2019 , we contributed $730 million (including $140 million in discretionary contributions in the united states) to our global funded pension plans, an increase of $293 million compared with 2018. during 2020, we expect to contribute between $600 million and $800 million of cash to our global funded pension plans. we also expect to make about $300 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. plans in 2020. our global funded plans remain fully funded in aggregate, demonstrating the effectiveness of our de-risking strategy and our commitment to a strong balance sheet. for a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) return on invested capital. we analyze total company performance using an adjusted return on invested capital ( roic ) financial metric based on an after-tax rolling four quarter average. the following table contains the calculation of our roic for the years shown (in billions): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2018 december 31, 2019 adjusted net operating profit after cash tax net income attributable to ford $ 7.7 $ 3.7 $ 0.0 add: noncontrolling interest 0.0 0.0 0.0 less: income tax (0.4 ) (0.7 ) 0.7 add: cash tax (0.6 ) (0.8 ) (0.6 ) less: interest on debt (1.2 ) (1.2 ) (1.0 ) less: total pension / opeb income / (cost) 0.6 (0.4 ) (2.6 ) add: pension / opeb service costs (1.1 ) (1.2 ) (1.0 ) net operating profit after cash tax $ 7.0 $ 4.0 $ 1.4 less: special items (excl. pension / opeb) pre-tax (0.5 ) (0.6 ) (3.5 ) adjusted net operating profit after cash tax $ 7.5 $ 4.6 $ 4.8 invested capital equity $ 35.6 $ 36.0 $ 33.2 redeemable noncontrolling interest 0.1 0.1 0.0 debt (excl. ford credit) 16.5 14.1 15.3 net pension and opeb liability 12.8 11.9 12.9 invested capital (end of period) $ 65.0 $ 62.1 $ 61.4 average invested capital $ 63.4 $ 64.0 $ 61.7 roic* 11.0 % 6.2 % 2.2 % adjusted roic (non-gaap)** 11.8 % 7.1 % 7.8 % * calculated as the sum of net operating profit after cash tax from the last four quarters, divided by the average invested capital over the last four quarters. ** calculated as the sum of adjusted net operating profit after cash tax from the last four quarters, divided by the average invested capital over the last four quarters. * note: numbers may not sum due to rounding. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit ratings our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the u.s. securities and exchange commission: dbrs, fitch, moody's, and s&amp;p. in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. the following rating actions were taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2019. on october 25, 2019, s&amp;p downgraded the credit ratings for ford and ford credit (to bbb- from bbb) and revised the outlook to stable from negative. the following table summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit nrsros issuer default / corporate / issuer rating long-term senior unsecured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend minimum long-term investment grade rating dbrs bbb bbb negative bbb r-2m negative bbb (low) fitch bbb bbb negative bbb f2 negative bbb- moody's n/a ba1 stable ba1 np stable baa3 s&amp;p bbb- bbb- stable bbb- a-3 stable bbb- 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook we provided 2020 company guidance in our earnings release furnished on form 8-k dated february 4, 2020. the guidance is based on our expectations as of february 4, 2020 and assumes no material change in the current economic environment, including commodities, foreign exchange, and tariffs, and does not include any assumptions for the effects of the coronavirus. our actual results could differ materially from our guidance due to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those set forth in risk factors in item 1a of part i. 2020 guidance total company adjusted free cash flow* $2.4 - $3.4 billion adjusted ebit* $5.6 - $6.6 billion adjusted eps* $0.94 - $1.20 capital spending $6.8 - $7.3 billion pension contributions $0.6 - $0.8 billion regular dividend** $0.15 / quarter adjusted effective tax rate* mid-to-high teens global redesign ebit charges $(0.9) - $(1.4) billion global redesign cash effects $(0.8) - $(1.3) billion ford credit ford credit auction values down about 5% *** * when we provide guidance for adjusted free cash flow, adjusted ebit, adjusted eps, and adjusted effective tax rate, we do not provide guidance for the most comparable gaap measures because, as described in more detail below in non-gaap measures that supplement gaap measures, they include items that are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty. ** subject to approval by our board of directors. *** on average compared with full year 2019 at constant mix. our guidance assumes at least nominal growth in automotive, offset by lower ebt from ford credit and a modest investment increase in mobility. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) cautionary note on forward-looking statements statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: ford's long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of global redesign and fitness actions; ford's vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs; ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies; operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents; ford's production, as well as ford's suppliers' production, could be disrupted by labor issues, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors; ford's ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints; ford's ability to attract and retain talented, diverse, and highly skilled employees is critical to its success and competitiveness; ford's new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance; ford's results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states; with a global footprint, ford's results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and brexit; industry sales volume in any of our key markets can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event; ford may face increased price competition or a reduction in demand for its products resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, competitive actions, or other factors; fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and market value of our investments can have a significant effect on results; ford and ford credit's access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; ford's receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback; ford credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than ford has assumed; pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect ford's liquidity and financial condition; ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, autonomous vehicle, and other regulations that may change in the future; ford and ford credit could be affected by the continued development of more stringent privacy, data use, and data protection laws and regulations as well as consumer expectations for the safeguarding of personal information; and ford credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer protection regulations, or other regulations. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors above. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) non-gaap financial measures that supplement gaap measures we use both generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and non-gaap financial measures for operational and financial decision making, and to assess company and segment business performance. the non-gaap financial measures listed below are intended to be considered by users as supplemental information to their comparable gaap financial measures, to aid investors in better understanding our financial results. we believe that these non-gaap financial measures provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends, and a means to assess our period-over-period results. these non-gaap financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with gaap. these non-gaap financial measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in items or events being adjusted. company adjusted ebit (most comparable gaap measure: net income attributable to ford) earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) excludes interest on debt (excl. ford credit debt), taxes, and pre-tax special items. this non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our operating results aligned with industry reporting. pre-tax special items consist of (i) pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses, (ii) significant personnel expenses, dealer-related costs, and facility-related charges stemming from efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and (iii) other items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. when we provide guidance for adjusted ebit, we do not provide guidance on a net income basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. company adjusted ebit margin (most comparable gaap measure: company net income margin) company adjusted ebit margin is company adjusted ebit divided by company revenue. this non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our operating results aligned with industry reporting. adjusted earnings per share (most comparable gaap measure: earnings per share) measure of company's diluted net earnings per share adjusted for impact of pre-tax special items (described above), tax special items, and restructuring impacts in noncontrolling interests. the measure provides investors with useful information to evaluate performance of our business excluding items not indicative of the underlying run rate of our business. when we provide guidance for adjusted earnings per share, we do not provide guidance on an earnings per share basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. adjusted effective tax rate (most comparable gaap measure: effective tax rate) measure of company's tax rate excluding pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. the measure provides an ongoing effective rate which investors find useful for historical comparisons and for forecasting. when we provide guidance for adjusted effective tax rate, we do not provide guidance on an effective tax rate basis because the gaap measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and opeb remeasurement gains and losses. company adjusted free cash flow (most comparable gaap measure: net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities) measure of company's operating cash flow excluding ford credit's operating cash flows. the measure contains elements management considers operating activities, including automotive and mobility capital spending, ford credit distributions to its parent, and settlement of derivatives. the measure excludes cash outflows for funded pension contributions, global redesign (including separations), and other items that are considered operating cash flows under gaap. this measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management's assessment of the company's operating cash flow performance. when we provide guidance for company adjusted free cash flow, we do not provide guidance for net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities because the gaap measure will include items that are difficult to quantify or predict with reasonable certainty, including cash flows related to the company's exposures to foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices (separate from any related hedges), ford credit's operating cash flows, and cash flows related to special items, including separation payments, each of which individually or in the aggregate could have a significant impact to our net cash provided by/(used in) our operating activities. 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) adjusted free cash flow conversion (most comparable gaap measure: net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities divided by net income attributable to ford) adjusted free cash flow conversion is company adjusted free cash flow divided by company adjusted ebit. this non-gaap measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate how much of ford's adjusted ebit is converted into cash flow. adjusted roic calculated as the sum of adjusted net operating profit after cash tax from the last four quarters, divided by the average invested capital over the last four quarters. adjusted return on invested capital ( roic ) provides management and investors with useful information to evaluate the company's after-cash tax operating return on its invested capital for the period presented. adjusted net operating profit after cash tax measures operating results less special items, interest on debt (excl. ford credit debt), and certain pension/opeb costs. average invested capital is the sum of average balance sheet equity, debt (excl. ford credit debt), and net pension/opeb liability. ford credit managed receivables (most comparable gaap measure: net finance receivables plus net investment in operating leases) measure of ford credit's total net receivables and held-for-sale receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). the measure is useful to management and investors as it closely approximates the customer's outstanding balance on the receivables, which is the basis for earning revenue. ford credit managed leverage (most comparable gaap measure: financial statement leverage) ford credit's debt-to-equity ratio adjusted (i) to exclude cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (other than amounts related to insurance activities), and (ii) for derivative accounting. the measure is useful to investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are deducted because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support operations and on-balance sheet securitization transactions. derivative accounting adjustments are made to asset, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments used with ford credit's term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature, so the interim effects of changes in market interest rates are excluded in the calculation of managed leverage. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) non-gaap financial measure reconciliations the following tables show our non-gaap financial measure reconciliations. the gaap reconciliation for ford credit managed leverage can be found in the ford credit segment section of liquidity and capital resources. net income reconciliation to adjusted ebit ($m) 2017 2018 2019 net income / (loss) attributable to ford (gaap) $ 7,731 $ 3,677 $ 47 income / (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 26 18 37 net income / (loss) $ 7,757 $ 3,695 $ 84 less: (provision for) / benefit from income taxes (402 ) (650 ) 724 income / (loss) before income taxes $ 8,159 $ 4,345 $ (640 ) less: special items pre-tax (289 ) (1,429 ) (5,999 ) income / (loss) before special items pre-tax $ 8,448 $ 5,774 $ 5,359 less: interest on debt (1,190 ) (1,228 ) (1,020 ) adjusted ebit (non-gaap) $ 9,638 $ 7,002 $ 6,379 memo: revenue ($b) $ 156.8 $ 160.3 $ 155.9 net income margin (%) 4.9 % 2.3 % 0.0 % adjusted ebit margin (%) 6.1 % 4.4 % 4.1 % earnings per share reconciliation to adjusted earnings per share 2017 2018 2019 diluted after-tax results ($m) diluted after-tax results (gaap) $ 7,731 $ 3,677 $ 47 less: impact of pre-tax and tax special items 608 (1,517 ) (4,676 ) less: noncontrolling interests impact of russia restructuring (35 ) adjusted net income - diluted (non-gaap) $ 7,123 $ 5,194 $ 4,758 basic and diluted shares (m) basic shares (average shares outstanding) 3,975 3,974 3,972 net dilutive options, unvested restricted stock units, and restricted stock 23 24 32 diluted shares 3,998 3,998 4,004 earnings per share - diluted (gaap) $ 1.93 $ 0.92 $ 0.01 less: net impact of adjustments 0.15 (0.38 ) (1.18 ) adjusted earnings per share - diluted (non-gaap) $ 1.78 $ 1.30 $ 1.19 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) effective tax rate reconciliation to adjusted effective tax rate 2017 2018 2019 pre-tax results ($m) income / (loss) before income taxes (gaap) $ 8,159 $ 4,345 $ (640 ) less: impact of special items (289 ) (1,429 ) (5,999 ) adjusted earnings before taxes (non-gaap) $ 8,448 $ 5,774 $ 5,359 taxes ($m) (provision for) / benefit from income taxes (gaap) $ (402 ) $ (650 ) $ 724 less: impact of special items 897 (88 ) 1,323 adjusted (provision for) / benefit from income taxes (non-gaap) $ (1,299 ) $ (562 ) $ (599 ) tax rate (%) effective tax rate (gaap) 4.9 % 15.0 % 113.1 % adjusted effective tax rate (non-gaap) 15.4 % 9.7 % 11.2 % net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities reconciliation to company adjusted free cash flow ($m) 2017 2018 2019 net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities (gaap) $ 18,096 $ 15,022 $ 17,639 less: items not included in company adjusted free cash flows ford credit operating cash flows 9,300 $ 8,171 $ 11,531 funded pension contributions (1,434 ) (437 ) (730 ) global redesign (including separations) (281 ) (196 ) (911 ) other, net (52 ) 82 390 add: items included in company adjusted free cash flows automotive and mobility capital spending (7,004 ) (7,737 ) (7,580 ) ford credit distributions 406 2,723 2,900 settlement of derivatives 217 132 107 pivotal conversion to a marketable security 263 company adjusted free cash flow (non-gaap) $ 4,182 $ 2,781 $ 2,785 cash conversion (gaap) 234 % 409 % 37,530 % adjusted free cash flow conversion (non-gaap) 43 % 40 % 44 % * note: numbers may not sum due to rounding. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit net receivables reconciliation to managed receivables ($b) 2017 2018 2019 ford credit finance receivables, net (gaap)* $ 108.4 $ 109.9 $ 107.4 net investments in operating leases (gaap)* 26.7 27.4 27.6 consolidating adjustments** 7.6 8.9 7.0 total net receivables $ 142.7 $ 146.2 $ 142.0 held-for-sale receivables (gaap) 1.5 ford credit unearned interest supplements and residual support 6.1 6.8 6.7 allowance for credit losses 0.6 0.6 0.5 other, primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation 1.1 1.2 1.0 total managed receivables (non-gaap) $ 150.5 $ 154.9 $ 151.7 * includes finance receivables (retail and wholesale) sold for legal purposes and net investment in operating leases included in securitization transactions that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. these receivables and operating leases are reported on ford credit's balance sheet and are available only for payment of the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay the other obligations of ford credit or the claims of ford credit's other creditors. ** primarily includes automotive segment receivables purchased by ford credit which are classified to trade and other receivables on our consolidated balance sheet. also includes eliminations of intersegment transactions. * note: numbers may not sum due to rounding. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2019 supplemental information the tables below provide supplemental consolidating financial information and other financial information. company excluding ford credit includes our automotive and mobility reportable segments, corporate other, interest on debt, and special items. eliminations, where presented, primarily represent eliminations of intersegment transactions and deferred tax netting. selected cash flow information. the following tables provide supplemental cash flow information (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2019 cash flows from operating activities company excluding ford credit ford credit eliminations consolidated net income/(loss) $ (2,144 ) $ 2,228 $ $ 84 depreciation and tooling amortization 6,023 3,666 9,689 other amortization 48 (1,247 ) (1,199 ) held-for-sale impairment charges 804 804 provision for credit and insurance losses 14 399 413 pension and opeb expense/(income) 2,625 2,625 equity investment dividends received in excess of (earnings)/losses 233 (30 ) 203 foreign currency adjustments (18 ) (36 ) (54 ) net (gain)/loss on changes in investments in affiliates (36 ) 7 (29 ) stock compensation 220 8 228 provision for deferred income taxes (1,407 ) 37 (1,370 ) decrease/(increase) in finance receivables (wholesale and other) 1,554 1,554 decrease/(increase) in intersegment receivables/payables (193 ) 193 decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable and other assets (971 ) 155 (816 ) decrease/(increase) in inventory 206 206 increase/(decrease) in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities 5,228 32 5,260 other 157 (116 ) 41 interest supplements and residual value support to ford credit (4,681 ) 4,681 net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities $ 6,108 $ 11,531 $ $ 17,639 cash flows from investing activities capital spending $ (7,580 ) $ (52 ) $ $ (7,632 ) acquisitions of finance receivables and operating leases (55,576 ) (55,576 ) collections of finance receivables and operating leases 50,182 50,182 purchases of marketable and other investments (11,589 ) (5,883 ) (17,472 ) sales and maturities of marketable and other investments 12,998 3,931 16,929 settlements of derivatives 107 (221 ) (114 ) other (34 ) (4 ) (38 ) investing activity (to)/from other segments 2,980 (2,980 ) net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities $ (3,118 ) $ (7,623 ) $ (2,980 ) $ (13,721 ) cash flows from financing activities cash payments for dividends and dividend equivalents $ (2,389 ) $ $ $ (2,389 ) purchases of common stock (237 ) (237 ) net changes in short-term debt (186 ) (1,198 ) (1,384 ) proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 3,082 44,522 47,604 principal payments on long-term debt (1,832 ) (44,665 ) (46,497 ) other (110 ) (116 ) (226 ) financing activity to/(from) other segments (2,980 ) 2,980 net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities $ (1,672 ) $ (4,437 ) $ 2,980 $ (3,129 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (5 ) $ 50 $ $ 45 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected income statement information. the following table provides supplemental income statement information (in millions): for the year ended december 31, 2019 company excluding ford credit automotive mobility other (a) subtotal ford credit consolidated revenues $ 143,599 $ 41 $ $ 143,640 $ 12,260 $ 155,900 total costs and expenses 140,736 1,379 3,739 145,854 9,472 155,326 operating income/(loss) 2,863 (1,338 ) (3,739 ) (2,214 ) 2,788 574 interest expense on automotive debt 963 963 963 interest expense on other debt 57 57 57 other income/(loss), net 2,074 140 (2,619 ) (405 ) 179 (226 ) equity in net income of affiliated companies (11 ) 12 1 31 32 income/(loss) before income taxes 4,926 (1,186 ) (7,378 ) (3,638 ) 2,998 (640 ) provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 444 (284 ) (1,654 ) (1,494 ) 770 (724 ) net income/(loss) 4,482 (902 ) (5,724 ) (2,144 ) 2,228 84 less: income attributable to noncontrolling interests 37 37 37 net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 4,445 $ (902 ) $ (5,724 ) $ (2,181 ) $ 2,228 $ 47 __________ (a) other includes corporate other, interest on debt, and special items 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected balance sheet information. the following tables provide supplemental balance sheet information (in millions): december 31, 2019 assets company excluding ford credit ford credit eliminations consolidated cash and cash equivalents $ 8,437 $ 9,067 $ $ 17,504 marketable securities 13,851 3,296 17,147 ford credit finance receivables, net 53,651 53,651 trade and other receivables, less allowances 3,618 5,619 9,237 inventories 10,786 10,786 assets held for sale 685 1,698 2,383 other assets 2,014 1,325 3,339 receivable from other segments 125 2,228 (2,353 ) total current assets 39,516 76,884 (2,353 ) 114,047 ford credit finance receivables, net 53,703 53,703 net investment in operating leases 1,612 27,618 29,230 net property 36,257 212 36,469 equity in net assets of affiliated companies 2,396 123 2,519 deferred income taxes 13,856 171 (2,164 ) 11,863 other assets 8,736 1,970 10,706 receivable from other segments 9 16 (25 ) total assets $ 102,382 $ 160,697 $ (4,542 ) $ 258,537 liabilities payables $ 19,681 $ 992 $ $ 20,673 other liabilities and deferred revenue 21,340 1,647 22,987 automotive debt payable within one year 1,445 1,445 ford credit debt payable within one year 52,371 52,371 other debt payable within one year 130 130 liabilities held for sale 481 45 526 payable to other segments 2,353 (2,353 ) total current liabilities 45,430 55,055 (2,353 ) 98,132 other liabilities and deferred revenue 24,280 1,044 25,324 automotive long-term debt 13,233 13,233 ford credit long-term debt 87,658 87,658 other long-term debt 470 470 deferred income taxes 61 2,593 (2,164 ) 490 payable to other segments 25 (25 ) total liabilities $ 83,499 $ 146,350 $ (4,542 ) $ 225,307 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) selected other information. equity. at december 31, 2018 , total equity attributable to ford was $35.9 billion , an increase of $354 million compared with december 31, 2017 . at december 31, 2019 , total equity attributable to ford was $33.2 billion , a decrease of $2.7 billion compared with december 31, 2018 . the detail for the changes is shown below (in billions): 2018 vs 2017 increase/ (decrease) 2019 vs 2018 increase/ (decrease) net income $ 3.7 $ shareholder distributions (3.1 ) (2.6 ) other comprehensive income (0.4 ) (0.3 ) common stock issued (including share-based compensation impacts) 0.2 0.2 total $ 0.4 $ (2.7 ) 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: (1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and (2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranties and field service actions nature of estimates required. we provide base warranties on the products we sell for specific periods of time and/or mileage, which vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. we accrue the estimated cost of both base warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. in addition, from time to time, we issue extended warranties at our expense, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the time of issuance. assumptions and approach used. we establish our estimate of base warranty obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. we reevaluate our estimate of base warranty obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to update the historical averages. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to assess whether the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on this data, we update our estimates as necessary. field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the base warranty coverage period. we establish our estimates of field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. we use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, severity, and average cost of claims for each model year. we assess our obligation for field service actions on a regular basis using actual claims experience and update our estimates as necessary. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of the factors used in establishing our estimates, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs. pensions and other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our defined benefit pension and opeb plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve to determine the year-end obligations. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. our expected long-term rate of return considers inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by plan. historical returns also are considered where appropriate. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. salary growth. our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. health care cost trends . our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. assumptions are set at each year-end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding pension and opeb costs and assumptions. pension plans effect of actual results . the year-end 2019 weighted average discount rate was 3.32% for u.s. plans and 1.74% for non-u.s. plans, reflecting decreases of 97 and 74 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2018 . in 2019 , the u.s. actual return on assets was 20.43%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.75%. non-u.s. actual return on assets was 10.72%, which was higher than the expected long-term rate of return of 4.18%. in total, these differences, in addition to demographic and other updates, resulted in a net remeasurement loss of $1.9 billion which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. for 2020 , the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.50% for u.s. plans, down 25 basis points from 2019 , and 3.67% for non-u.s. plans, down 51 basis points compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting an increased allocation to fixed income assets and a lower consensus on capital market return expectations from advisors. de-risking strategy . we employ a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. our de-risking strategy has increased the allocation to fixed income investments and reduced our funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates. changes in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2019 pension funded status and 2020 expense are affected by year-end 2019 assumptions. sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. the effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our obligations and fixed income assets. the table below estimates the impact on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): basis point change increase/(decrease) in december 31, 2019 funded status factor u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps $4,900/$(5,900) $5,300/$(6,900) interest rate - fixed income assets +/- 100 (4,700)/5,700 (3,900)/5,000 net impact on funded status $200/$(200) $1,400/$(1,900) the fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., changes in credit spreads, bond coupon and active management excess returns), and growth asset returns. other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected. interest rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. these assumptions are generally set at each year-end for expense recorded throughout the following year. the table below estimates the impact on pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions): basis point change increase/(decrease) in december 31, 2019 funded status factor u.s. plans non-u.s. plans interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 bps $40/$(40) $30/$(30) expected long-term rate of return on assets +/- 25 (110)/110 (70)/70 the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. the sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. other postretirement employee benefits effect of actual results . the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for worldwide opeb plans at december 31, 2019 was 3.30%, compared with 4.08% at december 31, 2018 , resulting in a worldwide net remeasurement loss of $551 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item. sensitivity analysis. discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our opeb obligation and expense. the table below estimates the impact on 2020 opeb expense of higher/lower assumptions for these factors (in millions): worldwide opeb basis point change (increase)/decrease 2019 ye obligation increase/(decrease) 2019 expense factor discount rate - obligation +/- 100 bps $700/$(850) n/a interest rate - service cost and interest cost +/- 25 n/a $5/$(5) income taxes nature of estimates required. we must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. we make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions and approach used. we are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. we recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. if, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. this process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. we evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. we must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income and reduce the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. this assessment, which is completed on a taxing jurisdiction basis, takes into account a number of types of evidence, including the following: nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses. a pattern of objectively measured recent financial reporting losses is heavily weighted as a source of negative evidence. we generally consider cumulative pre-tax losses in the three-year period ending with the current quarter to be significant negative evidence regarding future profitability. we also consider the strength and trend of earnings, as well as other relevant factors. in certain circumstances, historical information may not be as relevant due to changes in our business operations; sources of future taxable income. future reversals of existing temporary differences are heavily-weighted sources of objectively verifiable positive evidence. projections of future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences are a source of positive evidence only when the projections are combined with a history of recent profits and can be reasonably estimated. otherwise, these projections are considered inherently subjective and generally will not be sufficient to overcome negative evidence that includes relevant cumulative losses in recent years, particularly if the projected future taxable income is dependent on an anticipated turnaround to profitability that has not yet been achieved. in such cases, we generally give these projections of future taxable income no weight for the purposes of our valuation allowance assessment; and tax planning strategies. if necessary and available, tax planning strategies would be implemented to accelerate taxable amounts to utilize expiring carryforwards. these strategies would be a source of additional positive evidence and, depending on their nature, could be heavily weighted. we presently believe that a valuation allowance of $843 million is required, primarily related to deferred tax assets in various non-u.s. operations. we believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $11.3 billion of deferred tax assets. we have assessed recoverability of these assets and concluded that no valuation allowance is required for these assets. for additional information regarding income taxes, see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements. impairment of long-lived assets nature of estimates required - held-and-used long-lived assets. we test our long-lived asset groups when changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. events that trigger a test for recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and expenses, present cash flow losses combined with a history of present cash flow losses and a forecast that demonstrates significant continuing losses, significant negative industry or economic trends, a current expectation that a long-lived asset group will be disposed of significantly before the end of its useful life, a significant adverse change in the manner in which an asset group is used or in its physical condition, or when there is a change in the asset grouping. when a triggering event occurs, a test for recoverability is performed, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset group. if the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the asset group's fair value is measured relying primarily on a discounted cash flow method. to the extent available, we will also consider third-party valuations of our long-lived assets that were prepared for other business purposes. an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. when an impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over their remaining useful life. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) nature of estimates required - held-for-sale operations. we perform an impairment test on a disposal group to be discontinued, held for sale, or otherwise disposed of when we have committed to an action and the action is expected to be completed within one year. we estimate fair value to approximate the expected proceeds to be received less cost to sell and compare it to the carrying value of the disposal group. an impairment charge is recognized when the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. assumptions and approach used - held-and-used long-lived assets. we measure the fair value of an asset group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold to a third party) when available. when market prices are not available, we generally estimate the fair value of the asset group using the income approach and/or the market approach. the income approach uses cash flow projections. inherent in our development of cash flow projections are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our operating results, business plan forecasts, expected growth rates, and cost of capital, similar to those a market participant would use to assess fair value. we also make certain assumptions about future economic conditions and other data. many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates may change in future periods. changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the fair value measurement of an asset group and, therefore, can affect the test results. the following are key assumptions we use in making cash flow projections: business projections. we make assumptions about the demand for our products in the marketplace. these assumptions drive our planning assumptions for volume, mix, and pricing. we also make assumptions about our cost levels (e.g., capacity utilization, cost performance). these projections are derived using our internal business plan forecasts that are updated at least annually and reviewed by our board of directors. long-term growth rate. a growth rate is used to calculate the terminal value of the business and is added to the present value of the debt-free interim cash flows. the growth rate is the expected rate at which a business unit's earnings stream is projected to grow beyond the planning period. discount rate. when measuring possible impairment, future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that we anticipate a potential market participant would use. weighted-average cost of capital is an estimate of the overall risk-adjusted pre-tax rate of return expected by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. economic projections. assumptions regarding general economic conditions are included in and affect our assumptions regarding industry sales and pricing estimates for our vehicles. these macroeconomic assumptions include, but are not limited to, industry sales volumes, inflation, interest rates, prices of raw materials (e.g., commodities), and foreign currency exchange rates. during 2018, we embarked on a comprehensive strategy aimed at strengthening the competitive position and profitability of our operations. as part of this process, we have initiated several key fitness actions aimed at reducing structural costs while at the same time consulting with our key stakeholders and partners with regard to a fundamental redesign of our operations. this redesign includes changes to the company's vehicle portfolio, expanding offerings and volumes in its most profitable growth vehicle segments, while improving or exiting less profitable vehicle lines and addressing underperforming markets. against this backdrop, we determined that there were triggering events related to asia pacific operations, china, and south america business units and tested our long-lived assets for impairment. we also tested the newly formed international markets group ( img ) business unit, which combined our asia pacific operations, and middle east &amp; africa business units and also includes the results of our joint venture in russia. using our internal economic and business projections, as well as third-party valuations of certain long-lived assets, we determined that the carrying value of the long-lived assets in these business units was recoverable at december 31, 2019 . if in future quarters our economic or business projections were to change as a result of our plans or changes in the business environment, there was a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used, or there is a current expectation that a long-lived asset group will be disposed of significantly before the end of its useful life, we would undertake additional testing, as appropriate, which could result in an impairment of long-lived assets. assumptions and approach used - held-for-sale operations. in the third quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell specific net assets in our india automotive operations. we entered into a definitive agreement to form a joint venture with mahindra &amp; mahindra limited ( mahindra ), with mahindra owning a 51 percent controlling stake and ford owning a 49 percent stake. under the terms of the transaction, which is expected to close mid-2020, ford will sell certain india automotive operations to the joint venture. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our commitment to sell the india automotive operations triggered a held-for-sale impairment test. the fair value of the disposal group is measured using a market approach and estimated based on expected proceeds to be received less cost to sell, which we conclude is most representative of the value of the net assets given the current market conditions, the characteristics of viable market participants, and the pending sales transaction. as a result of the impairment testing, we recognized a pre-tax impairment charge of $804 million reported in cost of sales . allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses represents ford credit's estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables as of the balance sheet date. the adequacy of ford credit's allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. see note 11 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables based on several factors. consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. the models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit's present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. therefore, ford credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit's allowance for credit losses is based on its assumptions regarding: frequency. the number of finance receivables that are expected to default over the loss emergence period ( lep ), measured as repossessions; repossession ratio reflects the number of finance receivables that ford credit expects will default over a period of time divided by the average number of contracts outstanding; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle. collective allowance for credit losses. the collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to- receivables ( ltr ) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. the ltr model is based on the most recent years of history. an ltr for each product is calculated by dividing credit losses (i.e., charge-offs net of recoveries) by average net finance receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements, and allowance for credit losses. the average ltr that is calculated for each product is multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product. ford credit's largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. the loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail installment sale contract or finance lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to ford credit's active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred. the lep is an assumption within ford credit's models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. this time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. it is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. the lep is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses. for accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. specific allowance for impaired receivables . consumer receivables involved in troubled debt restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the contract's original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln retail financing is as follows (in millions): assumption basis point change increase/(decrease) frequency - repossession ratio +/- 10 bps $27/$(27) loss severity per unit +/- 100 3/(3) non-consumer portfolio. ford credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical ltr ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral. collective allowance for credit losses. ford credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using an ltr model for each financing product based on historical experience. this ltr is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables ltr approach. all accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance. specific allowance for impaired receivables. dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). the loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell. after establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if ford credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect ford credit interest, operating, and other expenses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within ford credit finance receivables, net on our balance sheet. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in ford credit's operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. ford credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if ford credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect ford credit's revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in ford credit's portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. at the time ford credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions used. ford credit's accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, ford credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. the impact of the change in assumptions on future auction values and return volumes would increase or decrease accumulated supplemental depreciation and depreciation expense over the remaining terms of the operating leases. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for ford credit's u.s. ford and lincoln operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions): assumption basis point change increase/(decrease) future auction values +/- 100 bps $(132)/$132 return volumes +/- 100 17/(17) adjustments to the amount of accumulated supplemental depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in ford credit interest, operating, and other expenses. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has issued the following accounting standards updates ( asu ) which are not expected to have a material impact (with the exception of asu 2016-13) to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures. for additional information, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. asu effective date (a) 2018-18 clarifying the interaction between collaborative arrangements and revenue from contracts with customers january 1, 2020 2018-15 customer's accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract january 1, 2020 2016-13 credit losses - measurement of credit losses on financial instruments january 1, 2020 (b) 2020-01 clarifying the interaction between equity securities, equity method and joint ventures, and derivatives and hedging january 1, 2021 2019-12 simplifying the accounting for income taxes january 1, 2021 2018-12 targeted improvements to the accounting for long duration contracts january 1, 2022 _________ (a) early adoption for each of the standards is permitted. (b) the fasb has issued the following update to the credit losses standard: asu 2019-05 (targeted transition relief). the new credit losses standard and the related amendments were effective january 1, 2020. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our ford credit segment. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2019 (in millions): payments due by period 2020 2021 - 2022 2023 - 2024 thereafter total company excluding ford credit on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) $ 1,169 $ 2,823 $ 157 $ 10,919 $ 15,068 interest payments relating to long-term debt 780 1,466 1,317 10,141 13,704 finance leases (b) 96 56 26 10 188 operating leases 388 498 245 360 1,491 pension funding (c) 181 385 373 939 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,323 1,414 635 200 3,572 total company excluding ford credit 3,937 6,642 2,753 21,630 34,962 ford credit on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) 38,671 53,016 21,136 13,158 125,981 interest payments relating to long-term debt 3,307 3,995 1,840 988 10,130 operating leases 18 27 25 27 97 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 26 41 18 85 total ford credit 42,022 57,079 23,019 14,173 136,293 total company $ 45,959 $ 63,721 $ 25,772 $ 35,803 $ 171,255 __________ (a) excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, unamortized debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments. (b) includes interest payments of $11 million. (c) amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated contributions to u.k. and ford-werke plans. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for further information regarding our expected 2020 pension contributions and funded status. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2019 of $1.9 billion (see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated. for additional information regarding pension and opeb obligations, operating lease obligations, and long-term debt, see notes 18, 19, and 20, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 77 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and ford credit segments differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and the committee includes our controller and chief financial officer, automotive, our treasurer, and other members of senior management. our automotive and ford credit segments are exposed to liquidity risk, including the possibility of having to curtail business or being unable to meet financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. our plan is to maintain funding sources to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through the purchase of commercial insurance that is designed to protect us above our self-insured retentions against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written policies and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with our corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps, and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making, or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, and in certain other instances, our derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. either situation results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized in income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive and ford credit segments are discussed and quantified below. automotive market risk our automotive segment frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the production of our vehicles and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of market value to instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our practice is to use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, and firm commitments denominated in certain foreign currencies consistent with our overall risk management strategy. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts). 78 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the net fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2019, was a liability of $596 million, compared with an asset of $363 million as of december 31, 2018. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying exchange rates, in u.s. dollar terms, would have been $2.3 billion at december 31, 2019, compared with $2.5 billion at december 31, 2018. the sensitivity analysis presented is hypothetical and assumes foreign exchange rate changes are instantaneous and adverse across all currencies. in reality, some of our exposures offset and foreign exchange rates move in different magnitudes and at different times, and any changes in fair value would generally be offset by changes in the underlying exposure. see note 21 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as base metals (e.g., steel, copper, and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). accordingly, our practice is to use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk with respect to forecasted purchases of certain commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily base metals and precious metals) and consistent with our overall risk management strategy. in our hedging actions, we use derivative instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts). the extent to which we hedge is also impacted by our ability to achieve designated hedge accounting. the net fair value of commodity forward contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2019, was a liability of $24 million, compared with a liability of $62 million as of december 31, 2018. the potential decrease in fair value from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would be $112 million at december 31, 2019, compared with $90 million at december 31, 2018. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc, as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and, therefore, play a role in managing commodity price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the loss we could incur in our company cash investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2019, we had $22.3 billion in our company cash investment portfolios, compared to $23.1 billion at december 31, 2018. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investments. in investing our company cash, safety of principal is the primary objective and risk-adjusted return is the secondary objective. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by $173 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2019. this compares to $205 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2018. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. 79 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) ford credit market risk market risk for ford credit is the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value. interest rate risk . generally, ford credit's assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. ford credit's assets consist primarily of fixed-rate retail financing and operating lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail financing and operating lease contracts generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. debt consists primarily of short- and long-term unsecured and securitized debt. ford credit's term debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to reduce volatility in its cash flows and volatility in its economic value from changes in interest rates based on an established risk tolerance that may vary by market. ford credit uses economic value sensitivity analysis and re-pricing gap analysis to evaluate potential long-term effects of changes in interest rates. it then enters into interest rate swaps to convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that ford credit's exposure falls within the established tolerances. ford credit also uses pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis to monitor the level of near-term cash flow exposure. the pre-tax cash flow sensitivity analysis measures the changes in expected cash flows associated with ford credit's interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments from hypothetical changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. ford credit's asset-liability committee reviews the re-pricing mismatch and exposure every month and approves interest rate swaps required to maintain exposure within approved thresholds prior to execution. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease of one percentage point in all interest rates across all maturities (a parallel shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that all interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, ford credit expects more debt and liabilities than assets to re-price in the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest received on ford credit's assets will increase less than the interest paid on ford credit's debt, thereby initially decreasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially increase. ford credit's pre-tax cash flow sensitivity to interest rate movement is highlighted in the table below. pre-tax cash flow sensitivity at december 31 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity 2018 2019 one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates $ 51 $ (26 ) one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates (a) (51 ) 26 _____ (a) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail financing and operating lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. 80 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars, canadian dollars, euros, sterling, and renminbi. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may use foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure, relating to changes in currency exchange rates at december 31, 2019, is insignificant. derivative fair values. the net fair value of ford credit's derivative financial instruments was an asset of $772 million and $7 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. counterparty risk counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance, which is calculated from counterparty credit ratings and market-based credit default swap ( cds ) spreads. the exposure limits are lower for smaller and lower-rated counterparties, counterparties that have relatively higher cds spreads, and for longer dated exposures. our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that have an investment grade rating. investment grade is our guideline for minimum counterparty long-term ratings.risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: continued decline in market share. our overall market share in the united states has declined in each of the past five years, from 21.1% in 2002 to 17.1% in 2006. the decline in overall market share primarily reflects a decline in our retail market share, which excludes fleet sales, during the past five years from 16.3% in 2002 to 11.8% in 2006. because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, these volume reductions have had an adverse impact on our results of operations. while we are attempting to stabilize our market share and reduce our capacity over time through the restructuring actions described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. continued declines in our market share could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. for example, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 14.8 million units in 2006. industry overcapacity has resulted in many of our principal competitors offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain market share. these marketing incentives have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates and other incentives. as a result, we have not necessarily been able to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases (e.g., for commodities or health care) or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations in either the u.s. or european markets. while we, general motors and daimlerchrysler have each announced plans to reduce capacity significantly, these reductions will take several years to complete and will only partially address the industry overcapacity problems. a continuation or increase in these trends could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the united states. trucks and sport utility vehicles historically have represented some of our most profitable vehicle segments and the segment in which we have our highest market share. during the past few years, there has been a general shift in consumer preferences away from medium- and large-sized sport utility vehicles, which has adversely affected our overall market share and our profitability. a continuation or acceleration of this general shift in consumer preferences away from sport utility vehicles, or a similar shift in consumer preferences away from truck sales or other more profitable vehicle sales, whether because of higher fuel prices, declines in the construction industry or otherwise, could have an increasingly adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) a significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the united states or europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo-political events or other factors. the worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions (among other factors) over which automobile manufacturers have little control. this is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle. the decision whether and when to make a vehicle purchase may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo-political events, and other factors. consumer demand may vary substantially from year to year, and, in any given year, consumer demand may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, including the cost of purchasing and operating a vehicle and the availability and cost of credit and fuel. moreover, like other manufacturers, we have a high proportion of costs that are fixed, so that relatively small changes in wholesale unit volumes may dramatically affect overall profitability. in recent years, industry demand has remained at high levels. should industry demand soften because of slowing or negative economic growth in key markets or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially adversely affected. for additional discussion of economic trends, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. offering highly desirable vehicles can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand. conversely, offering vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value or otherwise) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share and profitability. continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel. a continuation of or further increase in high prices for fuel or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weaker demand for relatively more profitable large and luxury car and truck models and increased demand for relatively less profitable small cars and trucks. an acceleration of such a trend, as demonstrated in the short-term with the spike in fuel prices following hurricanes katrina and rita in the u.s. gulf coast region in 2005, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. currency or commodity price fluctuations. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. substantial changes in these rates and prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for additional discussion of currency or commodity price risk, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor. we and certain of our major competitors have substantial legacy costs (principally related to employee benefits) that put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to other competitors. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor with substantial legacy costs could result in that competitor gaining a significant cost advantage (by eliminating or reducing contractual obligations to unions and other parties through bankruptcy proceedings). in addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major auto manufacturer likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the automotive supply base, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials. automobile manufacturers continue to experience commodity cost pressures and the effects of industry overcapacity. these factors have also increased pressure on the industry supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other challenges. as a result, suppliers have been less able to absorb commodity cost increases or to achieve productivity improvements, and, therefore, less willing to reduce prices to us. we have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. for example, in 2005 we reacquired from visteon twenty-three north american facilities in order to protect our supply of components. in connection with this transaction, we forgave $1.1 billion of visteon liability to us for employee-related costs, and incurred a pre-tax loss of $468 million. labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. our agreement with the united automobile workers union expires in september 2007 and will be renegotiated this year. our agreement with the canadian automobile workers union expires in september 2008 and will be renegotiated next year. these agreements provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and provide for significant employment security. as a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. these agreements may also limit our ability to change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other efficiency-related improvements. accordingly, unless we are able to negotiate significant changes to these agreements, they may impede our ability to restructure our business successfully to compete more effectively in today global marketplace. for discussion of our restructuring plans, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies. a work stoppage could occur at ford or supplier facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, such as the renegotiation in 2007 of our agreement with the united automobile workers union. a dispute under an existing collective bargaining agreement could arise, for example, as a result of efforts to implement restructuring actions, such as those discussed under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. a work stoppage for this or other reasons at ford or its suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason (e.g., financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties affecting a supplier), if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. some components used in our vehicles (e.g., certain diesel engines) are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. in addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to a component. substantial pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. we have two principal qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that provide noncontributory benefits to employees. certain of our u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries have separate similar noncontributory plans that generally provide similar types of benefits for their employees. in addition, we, and certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor plans to provide selected health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans, including funded status. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one of those circumstances is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe that it is not likely that the pbgc will terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were to be terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) if our cash flows and capital resources were to be insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. in addition, if our operating results and available cash were to be insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations. we might not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations then due. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends). the measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent that actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for additional discussion of these assumptions, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates and note 23 of the notes to financial statements. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns and/or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. increased safety, emissions (e.g., co 2 ), fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of governmental regulations, which often differ by state, region and country. in the united states and europe, for example, governmental regulation has arisen primarily out of concern for the environment, greater vehicle safety and a desire for improved fuel economy. many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. the cost of complying with these requirements can be substantial. our ability to comply with cafe or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and/or are feature-laden while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. moreover, if legislative or regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. if significant increases in cafe standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. for example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family-size, luxury, and high-performance cars and full-size light-trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and/or increase market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light-trucks in order to maintain compliance. see item 1. governmental standards for additional discussion. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental safety and other standards. however, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. for example, the preemptive effect of the federal motor vehicle safety standards is often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings even where our vehicles comply with federal law. furthermore, simply responding to litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. a change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long-term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract. we also have entered into a small number of long-term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine output. if our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or if a supplier output of materials were to increase, we could be required to purchase more materials than we need. adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events. we conduct a significant portion of our business in countries outside of the united states, and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging markets. these activities expose us to, among other things, risks associated with geo-political events, such as a governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of operations in a particular country as a result of political or economic instability, the outbreak of war or the expansion of hostilities; or acts of terrorism. such events could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. substantial negative automotive operating-related cash flows for the near- to medium-term affecting our ability to meet our obligations, invest in our business or refinance our debt . during the next few years, we expect substantial negative operating-related cash outflows. future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness and to fund our other liquidity needs. for example, if we are unable to meet certain covenants of our $11.5 billion secured credit facility established in december 2006 (e.g., if the value of assets pledged do not exceed outstanding borrowings), we will not be able to borrow under the facility. if our cash flow is worse than expected due to an economic recession, work stoppages, increased pension contributions or otherwise, or if we are unable to borrow under our credit facilities or otherwise for these purposes, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to implement one or more of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. should our cash flow be worse than anticipated or we fail to achieve any of these alternatives, this could materially adversely affect our ability to repay our indebtedness and otherwise have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for further information on our liquidity and capital resources, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. substantial levels of automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations (which may grow because we are able to incur substantially more debt, including additional secured debt). as a result of our recent financing actions and our other debt, we are a highly leveraged company. our significant automotive debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: our high level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, if any, or general corporate purposes may be impaired; we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; and our high level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. the more leveraged we become, the more we become exposed to the risks described herein. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and note 15 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information regarding our indebtedness. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) inability of ford credit to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise. the lowering of credit ratings for ford and ford credit has increased borrowing costs and caused ford credit access to the unsecured debt markets to become more restricted. in response, ford credit has increased its use of securitization and other sources of liquidity. over time, and particularly in the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers, ford credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect ford credit ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. for additional discussion, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources. higher-than-expected credit losses. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer or dealer failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations. for additional discussion regarding credit losses, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit is facing increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely affect ford credit profitability and the volume of its business. changes in interest rates. ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is u.s. dollar libor. ford credit interest rate risk exposure results principally from re-pricing risk, or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. any inability to adequately control this exposure could adversely affect its business. for additional discussion of interest rate risk, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. to limit the impact of interest rate changes, ford credit has entered into long-term interest rate swaps with large notional balances, many of which are receive-fixed, pay-float interest rate swaps. such swaps increase in value to ford credit when interest rates decline, and decline in value when interest rates rise. when interest rate swaps are not in designated hedging relationships, changes in the fair values of these derivatives due to interest rate movements can cause substantial earnings volatility. collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. after ford credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers. lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. all of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect ford credit profitability. for additional discussion regarding residual value, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates. 24 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) new or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. in the united states, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk commodity price risk for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents related to the operation of our business, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we currently have approximately 13,000 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just over 5 years. in addition to this intellectual property, we also rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. while we believe that these patents, patent applications and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 4 table of contents item 1. business (continued) warranty coverage and additional service actions. we presently provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and the geographic location of its sale. types of warranty coverage offered include base coverage (e.g., bumper-to-bumper coverage in the united states on ford-brand vehicles for 36 months or 36,000 miles, whichever occurs first), safety restraint coverage, and corrosion coverage. beginning with 2007 model-year passenger cars and light trucks, ford extended the powertrain warranty coverage offered on ford, lincoln and mercury vehicles sold in the united states, canada and select u.s. export markets (e.g., powertrain coverage for certain vehicles sold in the united states from three years or 36,000 miles to five years or 60,000 miles on ford and mercury brands and from four years or 50,000 miles to six years or 70,000 miles on the lincoln brand). in compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage. pursuant to these warranties, ford will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. estimated warranty and additional service action costs for each vehicle sold by us are accrued for at the time of sale. accruals for estimated warranty and additional service action costs are based on historical experience and subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience. warranty accrual adjustments required when actual warranty claim experience differs from our estimates may have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information with respect to costs for warranty and additional service actions, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - - critical accounting estimates and note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. united states sales data. the following table shows u.s. industry sales of cars and trucks for the years indicated (in millions of units): u.s. industry sales* years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 cars 8.1 7.9 7.7 7.8 8.2 trucks 9.0 9.6 9.6 9.2 8.9 total 17.1 17.5 17.3 17.0 17.1 * throughout this section, industry sales include sales of heavy trucks. we classify cars by small, medium, large and premium segments, and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van (including minivans), full-size pickup, sport utility vehicles and medium/heavy segments. however, with the introduction of crossover vehicles, the distinction between traditional cars and trucks has become more difficult to draw, and these vehicles are not consistently classified as either cars or trucks across vehicle manufacturers. in the tables above and below, we have classified crossover vehicles as sport utility vehicles. in addition, we have classified as premium all of our luxury cars, regardless of size; premium sport utility vehicles and crossovers are included in trucks. annually, we conduct a comprehensive review of many factors to determine the appropriate classification of vehicle segments and the vehicles within those segments, and this review occasionally results in a change of classification for certain vehicles. 5 table of contents item 1. business (continued) the following tables show the proportion of u.s. car and truck unit sales by segment for the industry (including both domestic and foreign-based manufacturers) and ford (including all of our brands sold in the united states) for the years indicated: u.s. industry vehicle mix of sales by segment years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 cars small 19.8 % 17.9 % 16.9 % 17.3 % 18.3 % medium 12.4 12.3 13.1 14.4 15.2 large 7.4 7.4 6.8 6.6 7.2 premium 7.5 7.8 7.7 7.7 7.4 total u.s. industry car sales 47.1 45.4 44.5 46.0 48.1 trucks compact pickup 3.5 % 3.9 % 4.0 % 4.4 % 4.6 % bus/van 7.8 8.1 8.5 8.2 8.5 full-size pickup 13.3 14.6 14.7 14.0 13.1 sport utility vehicles 25.2 25.6 26.1 25.7 24.3 medium/heavy 3.1 2.4 2.2 1.7 1.4 total u.s. industry truck sales 52.9 54.6 55.5 54.0 51.9 total u.s. industry vehicle sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % ford vehicle mix of sales by segment in u.s. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 cars small 11.8 % 10.9 % 10.2 % 11.4 % 12.5 % medium 12.1 7.7 8.7 10.4 11.9 large 7.7 8.3 5.0 4.8 4.4 premium 6.4 6.3 7.1 7.5 8.3 total ford u.s. car sales 38.0 33.2 31.0 34.1 37.1 trucks compact pickup 3.2 % 3.8 % 4.7 % 6.0 % 6.3 % bus/van 8.0 8.4 8.8 8.4 9.1 full-size pickup 27.7 28.8 28.2 24.3 22.5 sport utility vehicles 22.5 25.3 26.9 27.0 24.8 medium/heavy 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.2 total ford u.s. truck sales 62.0 66.8 69.0 65.9 62.9 total ford u.s. vehicle sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % as the tables above indicate, the general shift from cars to trucks for both industry sales and ford sales is beginning to shift back toward cars. prior to 2005, both industry and ford truck mix had been increasing since 2002, reflecting higher sales of sport utility vehicles and full-size pickups. in 2006, in line with industry trends, ford sport utility vehicle sales as a percent of total sales declined, while medium and small car percentages increased. the increase in 2006 in the proportion of medium cars sold by ford largely reflects the introduction of new models in this segment (e.g., ford fusion and mercury milan). market share data. the competitive environment in the united states has intensified and is expected to continue to intensify as japanese and korean manufacturers increase imports to the united states and production capacity in north america. our principal competitors in the united states include general motors corporation ( general motors ), daimlerchrysler corporation ( daimlerchrysler ), toyota motor corporation ( toyota ), honda motor company ( honda ) and nissan motor company ( nissan ). the following tables show changes in u.s. car and truck market share for ford (including all of our brands sold in the united states), and for the other five leading vehicle manufacturers for the years indicated. 6 table of contents item 1. business (continued) the percentages in each of the following tables represent the percentage of the combined car and truck industry: u.s. car market shares (a) years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 ford 6.4 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.9 % 7.8 % general motors 10.0 10.2 10.7 11.6 12.1 daimlerchrysler 5.2 5.1 4.8 4.5 4.8 toyota 8.6 7.4 6.3 6.0 5.6 honda 4.9 4.8 4.9 4.9 4.9 nissan 3.2 3.3 3.0 3.0 2.9 all other (b) 8.8 8.5 8.7 9.1 10.0 total u.s. car deliveries 47.1 % 45.4 % 44.5 % 46.0 % 48.1 % u.s. truck market shares (a) years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 ford 10.7 % 12.1 % 13.2 % 13.6 % 13.3 % general motors 14.1 15.6 16.4 16.4 16.2 daimlerchrysler 8.8 9.4 9.2 9.3 9.3 toyota 6.3 5.6 5.6 5.0 4.6 honda 3.9 3.6 3.2 3.1 2.4 nissan 2.8 2.9 2.7 1.7 1.4 all other(b) 6.3 5.4 5.2 4.9 4.7 total u.s. truck deliveries 52.9 % 54.6 % 55.5 % 54.0 % 51.9 % u.s. combined car and truck market shares (a) years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 ford 17.1 % 18.2 % 19.3 % 20.5 % 21.1 % general motors 24.1 25.8 27.1 28.0 28.3 daimlerchrysler 14.0 14.5 14.0 13.8 14.1 toyota 14.9 13.0 11.9 11.0 10.2 honda 8.8 8.4 8.1 8.0 7.3 nissan 6.0 6.2 5.7 4.7 4.3 all other(b) 15.1 13.9 13.9 14.0 14.7 total u.s. car and truck deliveries 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (a) all u.s. sales data are based on publicly available information from the media and trade publications. (b) all other includes primarily companies based in korea, other japanese manufacturers and various european manufacturers, and, with respect to the u.s. truck market shares table and u.s. combined car and truck market shares table, includes heavy truck manufacturers. our decline in overall market share is primarily the result of several factors, including increased competition, a recent industry shift away from our stronger segments (e.g., traditional sport utility vehicles and full-size pickups) and the discontinuation of a number of our vehicle lines over the last several years. fleet sales. the sales data and market share information provided above include both retail and fleet sales. fleet sales include sales to daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. the table below shows our fleet sales (including all brands) in the united states, and the amount of those sales as a percentage of our total u.s. car and truck sales for the last five years (in thousands): ford fleet sales years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 daily rental units 453 450 429 444 459 commercial and other units 287 263 248 227 252 government units 162 141 133 124 123 total fleet units 902 854 810 795 834 percent of ford total u.s. car and truck sales 31 % 27 % 24 % 23 % 23 % fleet sales increased in 2006, reflecting industry strength in the commercial and government segments. sales to daily rental car companies were constant in 2006 compared with 2005. in 2007, sales to daily rental car companies should decrease significantly, reflecting the discontinuance of the ford taurus sedan and freestar minivan models in 2006, and our strategy to concentrate on more profitable retail sales. 7 table of contents item 1. business (continued) europe market share information. outside of the united states, europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and trucks. the automotive industry in europe is intensely competitive. our principal competitors in europe include general motors, volkswagen a.g. group, psa group, renault group, and fiat spa. for the past 10 years, the top six manufacturers have collectively held between 70% and 76% of the total market. this competitive environment is expected to intensify further as japanese and korean manufacturers increase their production capacity in europe, and as other manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., bmw, mercedes benz and audi) continue to broaden their product offerings. for purposes of this discussion, 2006 market data are based on estimated registrations currently available; percentage change is measured from actual 2005 registrations. we track industry sales in europe for the following 19 markets: britain, germany, france, italy, spain, austria, belgium, ireland, netherlands, portugal, switzerland, finland, sweden, denmark, norway, czech republic, greece, hungary and poland. in 2006, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately 17.8 million cars and trucks in the 19 markets we track in europe, down 1.2% from 2005 levels. ford combined car and truck market share in europe (including all of our brands sold in europe) in 2006 was 10.6% (down 0.1 percentage points from 2005). britain and germany are our most important markets within europe. any change in the british or german market has a significant effect on our total european automotive profits. for 2006 compared with 2005, total industry sales were down 3.3% in britain and up 4.3% in germany. our combined car and truck market share in these markets (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2006 was 19.8% in britain (up 0.3 percentage points from the previous year), and 8.2% in germany (down 0.4 percentage points from the previous year). in particular, the market share for ford-brand vehicles in britain grew by 0.6 percentage points in 2006 the first significant increase in share for the ford brand in britain in recent years. although not included in the primary 19 markets above, several additional markets in the region contribute to our ford europe segment results. ford share of the turkish market increased by 0.1 percentage points to 17.1% the fifth year in a row that the ford brand has led the market in sales in turkey. we also are experiencing strong sales in russia, where sales of ford-brand vehicles increased approximately 92% to 116,000 units in 2006. motor vehicle distribution in europe. on october 1, 2002, the commission of the european union ( commission ) adopted a new regulation that changed the way motor vehicles are sold and repaired throughout the european community (the block exemption regulation ). under the block exemption regulation, manufacturers had the choice to either operate an exclusive distribution system with exclusive dealer sales territories, but with the possibility of sales to any reseller (e.g., supermarket chains, internet agencies and other resellers not authorized by the manufacturer), who in turn could sell to end customers both within and outside of the dealer exclusive sales territory, or a selective distribution system. we, as well as the vast majority of the other automotive manufacturers, have elected to establish a selective distribution system, allowing us to restrict the dealer ability to sell our vehicles to unauthorized resellers. in addition, under the selective distribution system, we are entitled to determine the number of our dealers but, since october 2005, not their location. under either system, the rules make it easier for a dealer to display and sell multiple brands in one store without the need to maintain separate facilities. within this regulation, the commission also has adopted sweeping changes to the repair industry. dealers can no longer be required by the manufacturer to perform repair work themselves. instead, dealers may subcontract the work to independent repair shops that meet reasonable criteria set by the manufacturer. these authorized repair facilities may perform warranty and recall work, in addition to other repair and maintenance work. while a manufacturer may continue to require the use of its parts in warranty and recall work, the repair facility may use parts made by others that are of comparable quality for all other repair work. we have negotiated and implemented dealer, authorized repairer and spare part supply contracts on a country-by-country level and, therefore, the block exemption regulation now applies with respect to all of our dealers. with these rules, the commission intends to increase competition and narrow price differences from country to country. while it remains difficult to quantify the full impact of these changes on our european operations, the block exemption regulation continued to contribute to an increasingly competitive market for vehicles and parts. this has contributed to an increase in marketing expenses, thus negatively affecting the profitability of our ford europe and pag segments. we anticipate that this trend may continue as dealers and parts suppliers become increasingly organized and established. 8 table of contents item 1. business (continued) other markets canada and mexico. canada and mexico also are important markets for us. in canada, industry sales of new cars and trucks in 2006 were approximately 1.7 million units, up 2.2% from 2005 levels. industry sales of new cars and trucks in mexico for 2006 were approximately 1.2 million units, up 1.3% from 2005. our combined car and truck market share (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2006 was 14.6% in canada (up 0.7 percentage points from the previous year), and 15.5% in mexico (down 1.3 percentage points from the previous year). south america. brazil, argentina and venezuela are our principal markets in south america. the economic environment in these countries has been relatively stable in recent years. the 2006 and 2005 results have been favorably influenced by continued improvements in economic conditions, political stability and government actions to reduce inflation and interest rates. industry sales in 2006 were approximately 1.9 million units in brazil (up 12.4% from the previous year), approximately 439,000 units in argentina (up 16.9% from the previous year), and approximately 336,000 units in venezuela (up 46.7% from the previous year). our combined car and truck share in these markets (including all of our brands sold in these markets) in 2006 was 11.5% in brazil (down 1.0 percentage points from the previous year), 14.6% in argentina (down 0.8 percentage points from the previous year), and 18.4% in venezuela (up 0.7 percentage points from the previous year). asia pacific. australia, thailand, south africa, and taiwan are our principal markets in this region. details of preliminary 2006 and actual 2005 industry volumes and our combined car and truck market share for these countries (including sales of all of our brands) are shown in the table below: industry volumes (in thousands) corporate market share 2006 2006 over/(under) over/(under) 2006 2005 2005 2006 2005 2005 australia 963 988 (25 ) (3 )% 11.9 % 14.9 % (3.0) pts. south africa 641 565 76 13 % 10.8 % 10.5 % 0.3 pts. taiwan 366 514 (148 ) (29 )% 14.8 % 11.0 % 3.8 pts. thailand 673 700 (27 ) (4 )% 2.9 % 4.2 % (1.3) pts. we have an ownership interest in mazda motor corporation ( mazda ) of approximately 33.4%, and account for mazda on an equity basis. mazda market share in the asia pacific region was 2.9% in 2006. our principal competition in the asia pacific region has been the japanese manufacturers. we anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region. we began operations in india in 1999, launching an all-new small car (the ikon) designed specifically for that market. in 2003, we launched the endeavor, ford first suv in india, and we also launched the fusion crossover in late 2004 and the fiesta in late 2005. our operations in india also sell components to other ford affiliates. we also are in the process of increasing our presence in china. changan ford mazda automobile corporation, ltd . ( cfma ) is a joint venture between ford (35% partner), mazda (15% partner), and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ) (50% partner). cfma first assembly plant, located in chongqing, became operational and began producing the ford fiesta in january 2003, and the ford mondeo later that year. the ford focus was launched in 2005, and the mazda3 and volvo s40 were launched in 2006. we also announced in 2003 that more than $1 billion would be invested over the next several years to expand manufacturing capacity, introduce new products and expand distribution channels in the chinese automotive market. this investment will initially support the addition of new products and expansion of production capacity at cfma chongqing plant from 50,000 units per year to about 200,000 units per year. it will also support the establishment of a second assembly plant and a new engine plant located in nanjing. we began construction of these new facilities in 2005, with expected completion in 2007. initial capacity at the new assembly facility is expected to be about 160,000 units annually. in addition, we have a 30% interest in jiangling motors corporation, ltd., which has operations in nanchang and assembles light commercial vehicles, including the ford transit, for distribution in china. we also import jaguar, volvo, land rover, and select ford vehicles into china. we continue to operate a purchasing office in china to procure components for operations outside of china. for additional discussion of our joint ventures in china, see item 2. properties. 9 table of contents item 1. business (continued) financial services sector ford motor credit company ford motor credit company ( ford credit ) offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit primary financial products fall into the following three categories: retail financing. purchasing retail installment sales contracts and retail lease contracts from dealers, and offering financing to commercial customers, primarily vehicle leasing companies and fleet purchasers, to purchase or lease vehicle fleets; wholesale financing. making loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing; and other financing. making loans to dealers for working capital, improvements to dealership facilities, and the acquisition and refinancing of dealership real estate. ford credit also services the finance receivables and leases that it originates and purchases, makes loans to affiliates, purchases certain receivables from us and our subsidiaries, and provides insurance services related to its financing programs. ford credit revenues are earned primarily from payments made under retail installment sale contracts and retail leases (including interest supplements and other support payments it receives from us on special financing programs), and from payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. ford credit does business in all 50 states of the united states and in all provinces in canada through automotive dealer financing branches and regional business centers. in 2007, ford credit will begin consolidating its branches in the united states and canada into its regional business centers. outside of the united states, fce bank plc ( fce ) is ford credit largest operation. fce primary business is to support the sale of our vehicles in europe through our dealer network. fce offers a variety of retail, leasing and wholesale finance plans in most countries in which it operates; fce does business in the united kingdom, germany and most other european countries. ford credit, through its subsidiaries, also operates in the asia pacific and latin american regions. in addition, fce, through its worldwide trade financing division, provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. ford credit share of retail financing for new ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in the united states and new ford-brand vehicles sold by dealers in europe, as well as ford credit share of wholesale financing for new ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and of new ford-brand vehicles acquired by dealers in europe, were as follows during the last three years: years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 united states financing share ford, lincoln and mercury retail installment and lease 44 % 37 % 45 % wholesale 80 81 84 europe financing share ford retail installment and lease 27 % 28 % 29 % wholesale 95 96 97 the increase in ford credit retail financing share in the united states in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily reflected the impact of our marketing programs that emphasized the use of ford credit financing and the non-recurrence in 2006 of our marketing program that offered employee pricing to all customers in 2005. for a detailed discussion of ford credit receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources and funding strategies, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. for a discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we sponsor special financing programs available only through ford credit. under these programs, we make interest supplement or other support payments to ford credit. these programs increase ford credit financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these support payments. 10 table of contents item 1. business (continued) we have a profit maintenance agreement with ford credit that requires us to maintain consolidated income before income taxes and net income at specified minimum levels. in addition, ford credit has an agreement to maintain a minimum control interest in fce and to maintain fce net worth above a minimum level. no payments were made under either of these agreements during the 2004 through 2006 periods. in addition, we entered into an amended and restated agreement with ford credit dated december 12, 2006 relating to our set-off arrangements and long-standing intercompany business practices, a copy of which is filed as an exhibit hereto. governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, damageability, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and assembly facilities in the united states, europe and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. such facilities also may be subject to comprehensive national, regional, and/or local permit programs with respect to such matters. mobile source emissions control u.s. requirements federal emissions standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. the current ( tier 2 ) emissions standards promulgated by the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) require light-duty trucks and certain heavy-duty passenger-carrying trucks to meet the same emissions standards as passenger cars by the 2007 model year. the tier 2 emissions standards also extend emissions durability requirements to 120,000 or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). these standards present compliance challenges and make it more costly and difficult to utilize light-duty diesel technology, which in turn restricts our ability to improve fuel economy for purposes of satisfying corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards. the epa also has promulgated new standards and requirements for epa-defined heavy-duty vehicles and engines (those vehicles with 8,500-14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight) to apply beginning with the 2007 model year for diesel engines and with the 2008 model year for gasoline engines. these standards and requirements include more stringent evaporative hydrocarbon standards for gasoline vehicles, and more stringent exhaust emission standards for all vehicles. in order to meet the new diesel standards, manufacturers must employ new aftertreatment technologies, such as diesel particulate filters, which require periodic customer maintenance. these technologies add significant cost to the emissions control system, and there are potential issues associated with consumer acceptance. the epa and manufacturers are engaged in discussions over the warning systems that will be used to alert motorists of the need for maintenance of these systems. as discussed in stationary source emissions control below, the epa continues to revise the national ambient air quality standards for particulate matter and ozone, and to redesignate areas of the country from attainment to non-attainment status. these periodic changes further increase pressure to reduce vehicle emissions of particulate matter, volatile organic compounds, and nitrogen oxide. u.s. requirements california and other state emissions standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california has received a waiver from the epa to establish its own unique emissions control standards. new vehicles and engines sold in california must be certified by the california air resources board ( carb ). carb current lev ii emissions standards treat most light-duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet new stringent emissions requirements. like the epa tier 2 emissions standards, carb lev ii vehicle emissions standards also present a difficult engineering challenge, and impose even greater barriers to the use of light-duty diesel technology. in 2004, carb enacted standards limiting emissions of greenhouse gases (e.g., carbon dioxide) from new motor vehicles. carb asserts that its vehicle emissions regulations provide authority for it to adopt such standards. vehicle manufacturers are seeking through federal litigation to invalidate these regulations on the grounds that greenhouse gas standards are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards and thus preempted by the federal fuel economy law and/or the federal clean air act. issues associated with greenhouse gas regulation are discussed more fully in the motor vehicle fuel economy section below. 11 table of contents item 1. business (continued) since 1990, the california program has included requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ( zevs ), which produce no emission of regulated pollutants. typically, the only vehicles capable of meeting these requirements are battery-powered vehicles, which have had narrow consumer appeal due to their limited range, reduced functionality, and high cost. this zev mandate initially required that a specified percentage of each manufacturer vehicles produced for sale in california be zevs. in 2003, carb adopted amendments to the zev mandate that shifted the near-term focus of the regulation away from battery-electric vehicles to advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions. the rules also give some credit for so-called partial zero-emission vehicles ( pzevs ), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. in addition, the rules provide a compliance path pursuant to which the auto industry would need to produce specified numbers of zero-emission fuel cell vehicles. in the aggregate, the rules call for production by the industry of 250 zero-emission fuel cell vehicles by the 2008 model year, 2,500 more in the 2009-2011 model-year period, and 25,000 more in the 2012-2014 model-year period. while the 2003 amendments appear to reflect a recognition by carb that battery-electric vehicles do not have the potential to achieve widespread consumer acceptance, the rules still require manufacturers to produce a substantial number of either battery-electric or fuel cell vehicles in the 2012 model year and beyond. there are substantial questions about the feasibility of producing the required number of zero-emission fuel cell vehicles, due to the substantial engineering challenges and high costs associated with this technology. it is also doubtful whether the market will support the number of required zevs. due to the engineering challenges, the high cost of the technology, infrastructure needs, and other issues, it does not appear that mass production of fuel cell vehicles will be commercially feasible for years to come, if at all. in accordance with carb zev regulations, a panel of independent experts is currently reviewing the feasibility of the zev requirements, and is expected to issue its findings in 2007. it is anticipated that the panel findings will likely lead to further amendment of the zev regulations, but we do not know how extensive the changes may be. compliance with the zev mandate may eventually require costly actions that would have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volume and profits. for example, we could be required to curtail the sale of non-zevs and/or offer to sell zevs, advanced-technology vehicles, and pzevs well below cost. the clean air act permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards to adopt california motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year. in addition to california, ten states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards (including california greenhouse gas provisions). eight of these states also adopted the zev requirements. these ten states, together with california, account for nearly 30% of ford current light-duty vehicle sales volume in the united states. more states are considering adopting the california standards. unfortunately, there are problems inherent in transferring california standards to other states, including the following: 1) managing fleet average emissions standards and zev mandate requirements on a state-by-state basis presents a major challenge to automobile company distribution systems; 2) market acceptance of some zevs varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) the states adopting the california program have not adopted california clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles to meet california in-use standards. u.s. requirements warranty, recall, and on-board diagnostics. under the clean air act, the epa and carb may require manufacturers to recall and repair non-conforming vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by the manufacturer, the epa or carb), or we may voluntarily stop shipment of or recall non-conforming vehicles. the costs of related repairs or inspections associated with such recalls, or a stop shipment order, could be substantial. carb is in the process of revising its program for emissions defect and warranty reporting and associated field actions (which includes recall actions). when complete, the new rules are likely to impose additional testing requirements and require manufacturers to conduct more frequent emissions-related field actions, resulting in added costs. both carb and the epa also have adopted on-board diagnostic ( obd ) regulations, which require a vehicle to monitor its emissions control system and notify the vehicle operator (via the check engine light) of any malfunction. these regulations have become extremely complicated, and creation of a compliant system requires substantial engineering resources. carb obd rules for vehicles under 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight include a variety of requirements that phase in between the 2006 and 2010 model years. carb also has adopted engine manufacturer diagnostic requirements for heavy-duty gasoline and diesel engines that apply to the 2007 to 2009 model years, and additional obd requirements for vehicles over 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight in model years 2010 and beyond. 12 table of contents item 1. business (continued) the epa obd rules are generally less stringent than carb s, so manufacturers typically design for compliance with carb requirements in order to avoid designing two systems. the complexity of the obd requirements and the difficulties of meeting all of the monitoring conditions and thresholds make obd approval one of the most challenging aspects of certifying vehicles for emissions compliance. carb regulations provide for automatic recalls of vehicles that fail to comply with specified obd requirements. in addition, many other states have implemented obd tests as part of their inspection and maintenance programs. failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. european requirements. european union ( eu ) directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. in 1998, the eu adopted a new directive on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial trucks. more stringent emissions standards applied to new car certifications beginning january 1, 2000 and to new car registrations beginning january 1, 2001 ( stage iii standards ). a second level of even more stringent emissions standards were applied to new car certifications beginning january 1, 2005 and to new car registrations beginning january 1, 2006 ( stage iv standards ). the comparable light commercial truck stage iii standards and stage iv standards come into effect one year later than the passenger car requirements. this directive on emissions also introduced obd requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements, and in-service compliance testing and recall provisions for emissions-related defects that occur in the first five years or 80,000 kilometers of vehicle life (extended to 100,000 kilometers in 2005). failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. the stage iv standards for diesel engines have proven technologically difficult and precluded manufacturers from offering some products in time to be eligible for government incentive programs. the eu commenced a program in 2004 to determine the specifics for further changes to vehicle emissions standards, and in 2005 the european commission published a proposed law for stage v emissions. specific mandated targets or limits are yet to be determined. to date, the law has not yet been finalized. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe mobile source emissions regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china has adopted the most recent european standards to be implemented in the 2008-2010 timeframe. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. because fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems may have to be redesigned to meet the requirements in these markets. furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if obd or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. japan has unique standards and test procedures, and is considering more stringent standards for implementation in 2009. this may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the japanese market. stationary source emissions control u.s. requirements. in the united states, the federal clean air act also requires the epa to identify hazardous air pollutants from various industries and promulgate rules restricting their emission. the epa has issued final rules for a variety of industrial categories, several of which would further regulate emissions from our u.s. operations, including engine testing, automobile surface coating and iron casting. these technology-based standards require certain of our facilities to reduce their air emissions significantly. additional programs under the clean air act, including compliance assurance monitoring and periodic monitoring, could require our facilities to install additional emission monitoring equipment. the cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. the clean air act also requires the epa to periodically review and update its national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ), and to designate whether counties or other local areas are in compliance with the new standards. if an area or county does not meet the new standards ( non-attainment areas ), the state must revise its implementation plans to achieve attainment. in 2006, the epa issued a final rule revising the naaqs for particulate matter. for fine particulate matter (i.e., particles 2.5 micrometers in diameter or less), the epa has issued a new standard that is considerably more stringent than its predecessor. the epa estimates that the new standard will put approximately 124 counties into non-attainment status for fine particulate matter. with respect to coarse particulate matter (i.e., particles between 2.5 and 10 micrometers in diameter), the epa has retained the existing standard after considering an alternative program that would have focused on urban and industrial sources. various parties have filed petitions for review of the final particulate-matter rules in the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit, in most cases seeking more stringent standards that would create even more new non-attainment areas. 13 table of contents item 1. business (continued) the alliance of automobile manufacturers (an industry trade group made up of nine leading automotive manufacturers including bmw group, daimlerchrysler, ford, general motors, mazda, mitshubishi motors, porsche, toyota and volkswagen (the alliance )) is planning to intervene to oppose further changes to the epa final rule. even under the final rule as issued, the new non-attainment areas will need to revise their implementation plans to require additional emissions control equipment and impose more stringent permit requirements on facilities in those areas. the cost to us, in aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. the epa is currently in the process of considering revisions to the ozone naaqs that could have significant implications for both stationary and mobile emissions sources. european requirements. in europe, environmental legislation is driven by eu law, in most cases in the form of directives that must be transposed into national legislation. all of our european plants are located in the eu region, with the exception of st. petersburg in russia. one of the core eu directives is the directive on integrated pollution prevention control ( ippc ). the ippc regulates the permit process for facilities, and thus the allowed emissions from these facilities. as in the united states, engine testing, surface coating, casting operations, and boiler houses all fall under this regime. the solvent emission directive coming into effect in october 2007 primarily affects vehicle manufacturing plants, which must upgrade their paint shops to meet the new requirements. the cost to us, in the aggregate, to comply with these requirements could be substantial. periodic emission reporting also is required of eu member states, in most cases defined in the permits of the facility. the recently-approved pollution release and transfer register requires more reporting regarding emissions into air, water and soil than its precursor. the information required by these reporting systems is publicly available on the internet. motor vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the safety act ) regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in the united states in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable motor vehicle safety standards established by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ). meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. there were pending before nhtsa five investigations relating to alleged safety defects or potential compliance issues in our vehicles as of january 22, 2007. the safe, accountable, flexible, and efficient transportation equity act: a legacy for users ( safetea-lu ) was signed into law in 2005. safetea-lu establishes a number of substantive, safety-related rulemaking mandates for nhtsa that can be expected to result in new regulations and product content requirements. the transportation recall enhancement, accountability, and documentation act (the tread act ) was signed into law in november 2000. the tread act required nhtsa to establish several new regulations, including reporting requirements for motor vehicle manufacturers on foreign recalls and certain information received by the manufacturer that may assist the agency in the early identification of safety defects. various groups have challenged the categorical determination by nhtsa that certain areas of data, including warranty claim information, field reports, and consumer complaint information, were granted a presumption of confidentiality under the tread act early warning reporting requirements. since that time, the united states district court for the district of columbia has ruled that, while nhtsa had the authority to make these categorical determinations, it did not provide adequate public notice and opportunity to comment in so doing. nhtsa has decided to address this issue in further rulemaking. resolution of this litigation may result in the publication of information (such as injury accident information) that manufacturers have been submitting to nhtsa under the tread act early warning reporting rules. 14 table of contents item 1. business (continued) foreign requirements. canada, the eu, individual member countries within the eu, and other countries in europe, south america and the asia pacific markets also have safety standards applicable to motor vehicles, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent standards in the future. in addition, the european automobile manufacturers association ( eama ) (also known in europe as acea ), of which ford is a member, made a voluntary commitment in june 2001 to introduce a range of safety measures to improve pedestrian protection with the first phase starting in 2005 and a second phase starting in 2010. similar commitments were subsequently made by the japanese and korean automobile manufacturers associations. as a result, more than 99% of cars and small vans sold in europe are covered by industry safety commitments. the european council of ministers and the european parliament published a directive in december 2003 and a decision in february 2004 which together set forth detailed technical provisions for enforcement of the industry commitments (i.e., the application dates, the types of tests to be conducted, the test procedures to be used, and the limit values to be achieved). motor vehicle fuel economy u.s. requirements federal standards. federal law requires that vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy standards set by nhtsa. a manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years. federal law established a passenger car cafe standard of 27.5 miles per gallon for 1985 and later model years, which nhtsa believes it has the authority to amend to a level it determines to be the maximum feasible level. by rule, nhtsa has set light-truck cafe standards of 21.6 miles per gallon for model year 2006, and 22.2 miles per gallon for model year 2007. in august 2005, nhtsa issued a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking to change the structure of the light-truck fuel economy standards for the model year 2008 and beyond. after taking public comment, nhtsa released the final rule in 2006. the final rule relies on a continuous mathematical function relating fuel economy targets to vehicle size. in model year 2011 and beyond, the truck cafe standards will apply for the first time to certain classes of heavier passenger vehicles (suvs and passenger vans with a gross vehicle weight between 8,500 and 10,000 pounds, or with a gross vehicle weight below 8,500 pounds and a curb weight above 6,000 pounds). a number of groups have filed petitions seeking judicial review of the light truck rule. these petitions for review have been consolidated into one case in the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit. among other things, the petitioners allege that the new light truck standards have been set below what is technologically possible and required by law; that nhtsa has failed to adequately address global climate change, air quality and other environmental impacts in making its decision; and that nhtsa new methodology for determining truck cafe standards is not authorized by the underlying federal statute. petitioners also challenge nhtsa position that state greenhouse gas rules are preempted by federal law. briefing in this litigation is underway, and the alliance plans to file an amicus brief seeking to prevent changes to nhtsa final rule. congress is considering a host of energy-related bills, some of which would impose specific new cafe standards, including new standards for passenger cars, that would be much more onerous than the percentage increases typically required by nhtsa in setting maximum feasible standards under current law. if such a bill were enacted, it could threaten our ability to comply with passenger car fuel economy standards in the future. at the same time, the bush administration has requested authority from congress for nhtsa to reform passenger car cafe standards using a similar structure to the new fuel economy program for light trucks. new authority from congress is believed to be required because the federal law governing the fuel economy program imposes greater limitations on nhtsa ability to regulate cars than light trucks. various bills have been introduced in response to the administration request. pressure to increase cafe standards stems in part from concerns about the impact of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions on the global climate. in 1999, a petition was filed with the epa requesting that it regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the clean air act. this would be the equivalent to imposing fuel economy standards, since the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by a vehicle is directly proportional to the amount of fuel consumed. the petitioners later filed suit in an effort to compel a formal response from the epa. in august 2003, the epa denied the petition on the grounds that the clean air act does not authorize the epa to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, and only nhtsa is authorized to regulate fuel economy under the cafe law. a number of states, cities, and environmental groups filed for review of the epa decision in the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit. a coalition of states and industry trade groups, including the alliance, intervened in support of the epa 15 table of contents item 1. business (continued) decision. in july 2005, the court held that the epa had exercised reasonable discretion in determining not to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant. this ruling is now being reviewed by the united states supreme court, and a decision is expected by the summer of 2007. the alliance is an intervenor in the case, and has filed a brief in support of the epa decision. u.s. requirements california and other state standards. in july 2002, california enacted assembly bill 1493 ( ab 1493 ), a law mandating that carb promulgate greenhouse gas standards for light-duty vehicles beginning with model year 2009. in september 2004, carb adopted california greenhouse gas emissions regulations applicable to 2009-2016 model-year cars and trucks, effectively imposing more stringent fuel economy standards than those set by nhtsa. these regulations impose standards that are equivalent to a cafe standard of more than 43 miles per gallon for passenger cars and small trucks, and approximately 27 miles per gallon for large light trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles by model year 2016. the alliance and individual companies (including ford) submitted comments opposing the rules and addressing errors in carb underlying economic and technical analyses. in december 2004, the alliance filed suit in federal district court in fresno, california. in addition to the alliance, plaintiffs in the case include several automobile dealers, two other individual automobile manufacturers, and another automotive trade association. the suit challenges the regulation on several bases, including that it is preempted by the federal cafe law. the discovery phase for this litigation is largely completed, and trial is currently expected toward the end of 2007. a host of other states have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, carb greenhouse gas standards. these states include new york, massachusetts, maine, vermont, rhode island, connecticut, new jersey, pennsylvania, oregon, and washington. several other states are known to be considering the adoption of such rules. the alliance, along with other plaintiffs, has filed suit in federal court in vermont and rhode island challenging those states adoption of the california ab 1493 rules. it appears likely that trial in the vermont case may begin in march 2007; the rhode island case is not as far along. in september 2006, california also enacted the global warming solutions act of 2006 (better known as assembly bill 32 ( ab 32 )). this law mandates that statewide greenhouse gas emissions be capped at 1990 levels by the year 2020, which would represent a significant reduction from current greenhouse gas levels. it also requires the monitoring and annual reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by all significant sources , and delegates authority to carb to develop and implement greenhouse gas emissions reduction measures. ab 32 also provides that, if the ab 1493 standards do not take effect, carb must implement alternative regulations to control mobile sources of greenhouse gas emissions to achieve equivalent or greater reductions than mandated by ab 1493. it is not clear at this time how this bill would be implemented. ford ability to comply with cafe or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand, as well as adequate lead time to make the necessary product changes (assuming that the technology can be developed). if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and/or are feature-laden, while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the technology can be developed). the recent changes to the light truck cafe standards pose very significant challenges for us. the standards set forth in ab 1493 pose even greater challenges, because their rapid rate of increase and extreme stringency are unprecedented in the history of fuel economy regulation. if significant increases in cafe standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or greenhouse gas regulations (such as ab 1493) are imposed, we likely would be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions may include, but are not limited to, curtailing production and sale of certain vehicles such as family-size, luxury, and high-performance cars and full-size light trucks; restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; and/or increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks in order to maintain compliance. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of the public nuisance litigation filed by the state of california against automobile manufacturers for alleged global warming damages. if that suit should result in a judgment against manufacturers, it could encourage similar litigation in other states and municipalities. it could also have the effect of imposing judicially-mandated standards for greenhouse gas emissions that would arguably supersede or augment existing fuel economy requirements. such a result could compel us to implement product restrictions and/or other costly actions as outlined above. 16 table of contents item 1. business (continued) european requirements. the eu is a party to the kyoto protocol and has agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by eight percent below 1990 levels during the 2008-2012 period. in 1998, the eu agreed to support an environmental agreement with acea (of which ford is a member) on carbon dioxide emission reductions from new passenger cars (the acea agreement ). the acea agreement established an emissions target of 140 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer for the average of new cars sold in the eu by the acea members in 2008. this corresponds to a 25% reduction in average carbon dioxide emissions compared to 1995. to date, the industry has made good progress, meeting an interim target for 2003 (165 170 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer); however, achieving the 140 grams per kilometer target by 2008 remains ambitious both technologically and economically. in 2005, acea and the european commission reviewed the potential for additional carbon dioxide reductions, with the goal of achieving the eu objective of 120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer ( g/km ) by 2012. the discussions have advanced using the concept of an integrated approach to further reductions, involving the oil industry and other sectors. in 2007, it has been proposed to set a 120 g/km overall target, with a vehicle target of 130 g/km and complementary measures making up the other 10 g/km in emissions reductions. the complementary measures could include, for example, regulation of tires or mobile air conditioning systems, or mandatory introduction of biofuels. the proposal also included a non-binding target for commercial vehicles under 3.5 tons of 175 g/km by 2012. many details remain subject to negotiation or revision in the legislative process. the resulting legislation likely will be adopted into law by 2009. some european countries are considering other initiatives for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles, including fiscal measures. for example, the u.k. introduced a vehicle excise duty and company car taxation based on carbon dioxide emissions in 2001, and other member states such as france and portugal have announced their intention to adopt carbon dioxide-based taxes for passenger cars. the 2007 european commission announcement is likely to trigger further fiscal measures. other national requirements. some asian countries (such as china, japan, south korea, and taiwan) have also adopted fuel efficiency targets. for example, japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2010 passenger car and commercial trucks with incentives for early adoption. china has adopted targets for 2005 and 2008, and is expected to continue setting new targets to address energy security issues. following considerable discussion, the canadian automobile industry signed a memorandum of understanding ( mou ) dated april 5, 2005 with the canadian government in which the industry voluntarily committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the canadian vehicle fleet by 5.3 megatons ( mt ) by 2010 (which slightly exceeds the government 5.2 mt target under its kyoto protocol climate change action plan). the mou contains the following interim targets for the entire canadian automobile industry: 2.4 mt reduction by 2007, total reduction of 3.0 mt in 2008, total reduction of 3.9 mt in 2009 and the full 5.3 mt reduction in 2010. pursuant to the mou, a committee of industry and government representatives has been established to monitor the industry overall compliance with the annual mou targets. european chemicals policy the european commission finalized its regulatory framework in december 2006 for a single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of certain chemicals ( reach ). the rules will take effect on june 1, 2007, followed by a pre-registration phase of eighteen months. compliance with the legislation is likely to be administratively burdensome for all entities in the supply chain, and research and development resources may be redirected from market-drive to reach-driven activities. the regulation also may accelerate restriction or banning of certain chemicals and materials, which could increase the costs of certain products and processes used to manufacture vehicles and parts. pollution control costs during the period 2007 through 2011, we expect to spend approximately $325 million on our north american and european facilities to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards which are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period. of this total, we currently estimate spending approximately $75 million in 2007 and $65 million in 2008. specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult. 17 table of contents item 1. business (continued) employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and our consolidated entities (including entities we do not control) at december 31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in thousands): 2006 2005 business unit automotive the americas ford north america 128 140 ford south america 13 13 ford europe and pag ford europe 66 66 pag 45 49 ford asia pacific and africa 18 18 financial services ford motor credit company 13 14 total 283 300 the decrease in employment levels primarily reflects implementation of our personnel-reduction programs in north america. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ( uaw or united automobile workers ). approximately two percent of our u.s. salaried employees are represented by unions. most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the united states also are represented by unions. our average labor cost per-hour-worked for hourly employees of ford in the united states, excluding subsidiaries, was as follows for the listed years: 2006 2005 earnings $ 32.38 $ 31.64 benefits 38.13 33.26 total $ 70.51 $ 64.90 we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with the uaw, and the national automobile, aerospace, transportation and general workers union of canada ( caw or canadian automobile workers ). among other things, our agreements with the uaw and caw provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the term of the respective agreements, and provide for significant employment security. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. our agreement with the uaw expires on september 14, 2007, and our agreement with the caw expires on september 16, 2008. historically, negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements with the uaw and caw have typically resulted in increases in wages and benefits, including retirement benefits; some of these increases typically have been provided to salaried employees as well. in 2006, we negotiated new ford collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, australia, brazil, britain, france, germany, mexico, russia, and vietnam. we also negotiated new collective bargaining agreements to cover employees at our jaguar (britain) and volvo (sweden) affiliates. in 2007, we are or will be negotiating new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, belgium, brazil, france, india, mexico, new zealand, philippines, russia, southern africa, spain, taiwan, thailand, united states (hourly and salaried), venezuela and vietnam. we will also negotiate new collective bargaining agreements at our aston martin (britain), land rover (britain), and volvo (sweden) affiliates. 18 table of contents item 1. business (continued) engineering, research and development we engage in engineering, research and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. we also have staffs of scientists who engage in basic research. we maintain extensive engineering, research and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in dearborn, michigan; dunton, gaydon and whitley, england; gothenburg, sweden; and aachen and merkenich, germany. most of our engineering, research and development relates to our automotive sector. in general, our engineering activities that do not involve basic research or product development, such as manufacturing engineering, are excluded from our engineering, research and development charges discussed below. during the last three years, we recorded charges to our consolidated income for engineering, research and development we sponsored in the following amounts: $7.2 billion (2006), $8 billion (2005), and $7.4 billion (2004). any customer-sponsored research and development activities that we conduct are not material. item 1a. risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: continued decline in market share. our overall market share in the united states has declined in each of the past five years, from 21.1% in 2002 to 17.1% in 2006. the decline in overall market share primarily reflects a decline in our retail market share, which excludes fleet sales, during the past five years from 16.3% in 2002 to 11.8% in 2006. because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, these volume reductions have had an adverse impact on our results of operations. while we are attempting to stabilize our market share and reduce our capacity over time through the restructuring actions described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. continued declines in our market share could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. for example, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 14.8 million units in 2006. industry overcapacity has resulted in many of our principal competitors offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain market share. these marketing incentives have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates and other incentives. as a result, we have not necessarily been able to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases (e.g., for commodities or health care) or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations in either the u.s. or european markets. while we, general motors and daimlerchrysler have each announced plans to reduce capacity significantly, these reductions will take several years to complete and will only partially address the industry overcapacity problems. a continuation or increase in these trends could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the united states. trucks and sport utility vehicles historically have represented some of our most profitable vehicle segments and the segment in which we have our highest market share. during the past few years, there has been a general shift in consumer preferences away from medium- and large-sized sport utility vehicles, which has adversely affected our overall market share and our profitability. a continuation or acceleration of this general shift in consumer preferences away from sport utility vehicles, or a similar shift in consumer preferences away from truck sales or other more profitable vehicle sales, whether because of higher fuel prices, declines in the construction industry or otherwise, could have an increasingly adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) a significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the united states or europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo-political events or other factors. the worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions (among other factors) over which automobile manufacturers have little control. this is especially so because vehicles are durable goods, which provide consumers latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle. the decision whether and when to make a vehicle purchase may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geo-political events, and other factors. consumer demand may vary substantially from year to year, and, in any given year, consumer demand may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, including the cost of purchasing and operating a vehicle and the availability and cost of credit and fuel. moreover, like other manufacturers, we have a high proportion of costs that are fixed, so that relatively small changes in wholesale unit volumes may dramatically affect overall profitability. in recent years, industry demand has remained at high levels. should industry demand soften because of slowing or negative economic growth in key markets or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially adversely affected. for additional discussion of economic trends, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. offering highly desirable vehicles can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand. conversely, offering vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value or otherwise) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle perceived quality could be affected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share and profitability. continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel. a continuation of or further increase in high prices for fuel or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in weaker demand for relatively more profitable large and luxury car and truck models and increased demand for relatively less profitable small cars and trucks. an acceleration of such a trend, as demonstrated in the short-term with the spike in fuel prices following hurricanes katrina and rita in the u.s. gulf coast region in 2005, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. currency or commodity price fluctuations. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. substantial changes in these rates and prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for additional discussion of currency or commodity price risk, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor. we and certain of our major competitors have substantial legacy costs (principally related to employee benefits) that put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to other competitors. the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor with substantial legacy costs could result in that competitor gaining a significant cost advantage (by eliminating or reducing contractual obligations to unions and other parties through bankruptcy proceedings). in addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major auto manufacturer likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the automotive supply base, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials. automobile manufacturers continue to experience commodity cost pressures and the effects of industry overcapacity. these factors have also increased pressure on the industry supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other challenges. as a result, suppliers have been less able to absorb commodity cost increases or to achieve productivity improvements, and, therefore, less willing to reduce prices to us. we have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. for example, in 2005 we reacquired from visteon twenty-three north american facilities in order to protect our supply of components. in connection with this transaction, we forgave $1.1 billion of visteon liability to us for employee-related costs, and incurred a pre-tax loss of $468 million. labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. our agreement with the united automobile workers union expires in september 2007 and will be renegotiated this year. our agreement with the canadian automobile workers union expires in september 2008 and will be renegotiated next year. these agreements provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and provide for significant employment security. as a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to eliminate product lines, close plants, and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. these agreements may also limit our ability to change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other efficiency-related improvements. accordingly, unless we are able to negotiate significant changes to these agreements, they may impede our ability to restructure our business successfully to compete more effectively in today global marketplace. for discussion of our restructuring plans, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies. a work stoppage could occur at ford or supplier facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, such as the renegotiation in 2007 of our agreement with the united automobile workers union. a dispute under an existing collective bargaining agreement could arise, for example, as a result of efforts to implement restructuring actions, such as those discussed under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. a work stoppage for this or other reasons at ford or its suppliers, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason (e.g., financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties affecting a supplier), if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. single-source supply of components or materials. some components used in our vehicles (e.g., certain diesel engines) are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. in addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to a component. substantial pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. we have two principal qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that provide noncontributory benefits to employees. certain of our u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries have separate similar noncontributory plans that generally provide similar types of benefits for their employees. in addition, we, and certain of our subsidiaries, sponsor plans to provide selected health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans, including funded status. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one of those circumstances is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe that it is not likely that the pbgc will terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were to be terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) if our cash flows and capital resources were to be insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. in addition, if our operating results and available cash were to be insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations. we might not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations then due. worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, health care cost trends). the measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent that actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for additional discussion of these assumptions, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates and note 23 of the notes to financial statements. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns and/or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. increased safety, emissions (e.g., co 2 ), fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial number of governmental regulations, which often differ by state, region and country. in the united states and europe, for example, governmental regulation has arisen primarily out of concern for the environment, greater vehicle safety and a desire for improved fuel economy. many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers and influencing their balance of payments. the cost of complying with these requirements can be substantial. our ability to comply with cafe or greenhouse gas emissions standards depends heavily on the alignment of these standards with actual consumer demand. if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and/or are feature-laden while regulatory standards are skewed toward vehicles that are smaller and more economical, compliance becomes problematic. moreover, if legislative or regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average greenhouse gas emissions), the company may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of its vehicle fleet. if significant increases in cafe standards are imposed beyond those presently in effect or proposed, or if state greenhouse gas regulations are not overturned, we may be forced to take various costly actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. for example, we may have to curtail production of certain vehicles such as family-size, luxury, and high-performance cars and full-size light-trucks; restrict offerings of selected engines and popular options; and/or increase market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light-trucks in order to maintain compliance. see item 1. governmental standards for additional discussion. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental safety and other standards. however, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. for example, the preemptive effect of the federal motor vehicle safety standards is often a contested issue in litigation, and some courts have permitted liability findings even where our vehicles comply with federal law. furthermore, simply responding to litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards requires significant expenditures of time and other resources. a change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long-term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract. we also have entered into a small number of long-term supply contracts for raw materials (for example, precious metals used in catalytic converters) that require us to purchase a fixed percentage of mine output. if our need for any of these raw materials were to lessen, or if a supplier output of materials were to increase, we could be required to purchase more materials than we need. adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events. we conduct a significant portion of our business in countries outside of the united states, and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging markets. these activities expose us to, among other things, risks associated with geo-political events, such as a governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of operations in a particular country as a result of political or economic instability, the outbreak of war or the expansion of hostilities; or acts of terrorism. such events could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. substantial negative automotive operating-related cash flows for the near- to medium-term affecting our ability to meet our obligations, invest in our business or refinance our debt . during the next few years, we expect substantial negative operating-related cash outflows. future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness and to fund our other liquidity needs. for example, if we are unable to meet certain covenants of our $11.5 billion secured credit facility established in december 2006 (e.g., if the value of assets pledged do not exceed outstanding borrowings), we will not be able to borrow under the facility. if our cash flow is worse than expected due to an economic recession, work stoppages, increased pension contributions or otherwise, or if we are unable to borrow under our credit facilities or otherwise for these purposes, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. we may not be able to implement one or more of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. should our cash flow be worse than anticipated or we fail to achieve any of these alternatives, this could materially adversely affect our ability to repay our indebtedness and otherwise have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for further information on our liquidity and capital resources, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. substantial levels of automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations (which may grow because we are able to incur substantially more debt, including additional secured debt). as a result of our recent financing actions and our other debt, we are a highly leveraged company. our significant automotive debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: our high level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, if any, or general corporate purposes may be impaired; we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; and our high level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. the more leveraged we become, the more we become exposed to the risks described herein. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and note 15 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information regarding our indebtedness. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) inability of ford credit to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise. the lowering of credit ratings for ford and ford credit has increased borrowing costs and caused ford credit access to the unsecured debt markets to become more restricted. in response, ford credit has increased its use of securitization and other sources of liquidity. over time, and particularly in the event of any further credit rating downgrades or a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers, ford credit may need to reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce ongoing profits and could adversely affect ford credit ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. for additional discussion, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources. higher-than-expected credit losses. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer or dealer failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations. for additional discussion regarding credit losses, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates. increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through a single standard system, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit is facing increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely affect ford credit profitability and the volume of its business. changes in interest rates. ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is u.s. dollar libor. ford credit interest rate risk exposure results principally from re-pricing risk, or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. any inability to adequately control this exposure could adversely affect its business. for additional discussion of interest rate risk, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. to limit the impact of interest rate changes, ford credit has entered into long-term interest rate swaps with large notional balances, many of which are receive-fixed, pay-float interest rate swaps. such swaps increase in value to ford credit when interest rates decline, and decline in value when interest rates rise. when interest rate swaps are not in designated hedging relationships, changes in the fair values of these derivatives due to interest rate movements can cause substantial earnings volatility. collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. after ford credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers. lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. all of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect ford credit profitability. for additional discussion regarding residual value, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates. 24 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) new or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. in the united states, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capital reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none to report. item 2. properties our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities, although many of these properties have been pledged to secure indebtedness. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. most of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 42% of the total square footage). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. all of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 92% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. as in the united states, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. the total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and sales offices used by our automotive segments are shown in the table below: distribution engineering, sales segment plants centers/warehouses research/development offices ford north america 54 * 31 39 38 ford south america 7 1 0 0 ford europe 19 7 5 10 pag 14 3 4 16 ford asia pacific and africa/mazda 13 3 2 5 total 107 45 50 69 * we have announced plans to cease operations at a number of north american manufacturing facilities as part of our restructuring actions; the number above does not include plants that have been idled to date. for further discussion of our restructuring actions, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. included in the table above are 13 plants operated by ach; of these, we have reached agreement in principle to sell three plants. we also have announced that we intend to sell or idle all plants currently operated by ach by the end of 2008. 25 table of contents item 2. properties (continued) included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our automotive sector. following are the most significant of these consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants they own: autoalliance international ( aai ) a 50/50 joint venture with mazda (of which we own approximately 33.4%), which operates as its principal business an automobile vehicle assembly plant in flat rock, michigan. aai currently produces the mazda6 and ford mustang models. ford supplies all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried labor requirements to aai, and aai reimburses ford for the full cost of that labor. ford otosan a joint venture in turkey between ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner) and public investors (18%) that is our single source supplier of the ford transit connect vehicle and our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. in addition, ford otosan makes the ford transit series and the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license. this joint venture owns and operates two plants and a parts distribution depot in turkey. getrag ford transmissions gmbh a 50/50 joint venture with getrag deutsche venture gmbh and co. kg, a german company, to which we transferred our european manual transmission operations in halewood, england; cologne, germany; and bordeaux, france. in 2004, volvo car corporation ( volvo cars ) transferred its manual transmission operations from its k ping, sweden plant to this joint venture. the getrag joint venture produces manual transmissions for our operations in europe (ford europe and pag). ford currently supplies most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this getrag joint venture. ford employees who worked at the manual transmission operations transferred at the time of formation of the joint venture are assigned to the joint venture by ford. in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, ford employees assigned to the joint venture may return to ford. employees hired in the future to work in these operations will be employed directly by the joint venture. getrag ford transmissions gmbh reimburses ford for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor supplied by ford. this joint venture operates three plants. getrag all wheel drive ab a joint venture in sweden between getrag dana holding gmbh ( getrag/dana ) (60% partner) and volvo cars (40% partner). in january 2004, volvo cars transferred to this joint venture its plant in k ping, sweden. the joint venture produces all-wheel drive components. as noted above, the manual transmission operations at the k ping plant were transferred to getrag ford transmissions gmbh. the hourly and salaried employees at the plant have become employees of the joint venture. tekfor cologne gmbh ( tekfor ) a 50/50 joint venture of ford-werke gmbh ( ford-werke ) and neumayer tekfor gmbh, a german company, to which joint venture ford-werke transferred the operations of the ford forge in cologne. the joint venture produces forged components, primarily for transmissions and chassis, for use in ford vehicles and for sale to third parties. those ford employees who worked at the cologne forge plant at the time of the formation of the joint venture are assigned to tekfor by ford and remain ford employees. in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, ford employees assigned to tekfor may return to ford. new workers at the joint venture will be hired as employees of the joint venture. tekfor reimburses ford for the full cost of ford employees assigned to the joint venture. this joint venture operates one plant. pininfarina sverige, ab a joint venture between volvo cars (40% partner) and pininfarina, s.p.a. ( pininfarina ) (60% partner). in september 2003, volvo cars and pininfarina established this joint venture for the engineering and manufacture of niche vehicles, starting with a new, small convertible (volvo c70), which is distributed by volvo. the joint venture began production of the new car at the uddevalla plant in sweden, which was transferred from volvo cars to the joint venture in december 2005, and is the joint venture only plant. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and song cong diesel (25% partner). ford vietnam assembles and distributes several ford vehicles in vietnam, including escape, everest, focus, mondeo, ranger and transit models. this joint venture operates one plant. ford lio ho motor company ltd. ( flh ) a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda and suzuki. in addition to domestic assembly, flh also has 26 table of contents item 2. properties (continued) local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports ford-brand built-up vehicles from europe and the united states. this joint venture operates one plant. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by other, unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these additional plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of these joint ventures are: autoalliance (thailand) ( aat ) a joint venture among ford (50%), mazda (45%) and a thai affiliate of mazda (5%), which owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces the ford everest, ford ranger and mazda b-series pickup trucks for the thai market and for export to over 100 countries worldwide (other than north america), in both built-up and kit form. blue diamond truck, de rl de cv a joint venture between ford (49% partner) and international truck and engine corporation (51% partner), a subsidiary of navistar international corporation ( navistar ). blue diamond truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light commercial trucks in mexico and sells the vehicles to ford and navistar for their own independent distribution. blue diamond truck manufactures ford f-650/750 medium-duty commercial trucks that are sold in the united states and canada; navistar medium-duty commercial trucks that are sold in mexico; and a low-cab-forward, light-/medium-duty commercial truck for each of ford and navistar. tenedora nemak, s.a. de c.v. a joint venture between ford (15% partner) and a subsidiary of mexican conglomerate alfa s.a. de c.v. (85% partner), which owns and operates, among other facilities, our former canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to several of our engine plants. ford supplies a portion of the hourly labor requirements for the canadian plants, for which it is fully reimbursed by the joint venture. changan ford mazda automobile corporation, ltd. ( cfma ) a joint venture between ford (35% partner), mazda (15% partner) and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ( changan ) (50% partner). through its facility in the chinese city of chongqing, cfma produces and distributes in china the ford fiesta, mondeo and focus, the mazda3 and the volvo s40. in 2005, cfma received approval from the chinese government for the establishment of a new vehicle manufacturing plant in the chinese city of nanjing, which is now under construction. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ( cfme ) a joint venture between ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner) and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd (50% partner). cfme is located in the city of nanjing, and will produce the ford new i4 and mazda bz engines in support of the assembly of ford- and mazda-branded vehicles manufactured in china. jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ( jmc ) a publicly-traded company in china with ford (30% shareholder) and jiangxi jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangxi jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. and jiangling motors company group. the public investors of jmc own 29% of its outstanding shares. jmc assembles the ford transit van and other non-ford-technology-based vehicles for distribution in china. ford malaysia sdn. bhd. a joint venture between ford (49% partner) and tractors malaysia, a publicly-traded subsidiary of sime darby (51% partner). ford malaysia distributes ford vehicles assembled by its wholly-owned subsidiary associated motor industries malaysia, sdn. bhd., an assembly company, including econovan, escape, everest, laser and ranger models. the furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. the facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. 27 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings overview various legal actions, governmental investigations and proceedings and claims are pending or may be instituted or asserted in the future against us and our subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, those arising out of the following: alleged defects in our products; governmental regulations covering safety, emissions and fuel economy; financial services; employment-related matters; dealer, supplier, and other contractual relationships; intellectual property rights; product warranties; environmental matters; shareholder and investor matters; and financial reporting matters. some of the pending legal actions are, or purport to be, class actions. some of the foregoing matters involve or may involve compensatory, punitive or antitrust or other multiplied damage claims in very large amounts, or demands for recall campaigns, environmental remediation programs, sanctions or other relief that, if granted, would require very large expenditures. we regularly evaluate the expected outcome of product liability litigation and other litigation matters. we have accrued expenses for probable losses on product liability matters, in the aggregate, based on an analysis of historical litigation payouts and trends. we have also accrued expenses for other litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. these accruals are reflected in our financial statements. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: asbestos matters asbestos was used in brakes, clutches and other automotive components dating from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, we are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged contact with certain ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. the majority of these cases have been filed in state courts. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves mechanics or other individuals who have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. in most of the asbestos litigation we are not the sole defendant. we believe we are being more aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. we are prepared to defend these asbestos-related cases and, with respect to the cases alleging exposure from our brakes, believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that mechanics and others are not at an increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages, and in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum. the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants, with the number in some cases exceeding one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and we are often unable to tell from the pleadings which of the plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). our annual payout and related defense costs in asbestos cases had been increasing between 1999 and 2003, and began to decline in 2004 and 2005. in 2006, these costs again decreased; however, they may become substantial in the future. environmental matters general. we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be substantial. the contingent losses that we expect to incur in connection with many of these sites have been accrued and those losses are reflected in our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. however, for many sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our 28 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings (continued) connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the nature and scope of investigations, studies, and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent, duration, and success of remediation). as a result, we are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the amount of costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible in connection with these sites, although that total could be substantial. woodhaven stamping plant letter of violation. in 2005, the michigan department of environmental quality ( deq ) issued a letter of violation to ford woodhaven stamping plant alleging that the facility had failed to properly report emissions from boilers and space heaters, and that the facility had failed to apply for a title v permit as required by michigan law. we have resolved this matter and paid a fine of $47,500. edison assembly plant concrete disposal. during demolition of our edison assembly plant, we discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab. the concrete was crushed and reused by several developers as fill material at ten different off-site locations. the new jersey department of environmental protection ( dep ) asserts that some of these locations may not have been authorized to receive the waste. in march 2006, the dep ordered ford, its supplier mig-alberici, inc., and the developer edgewood properties, inc., to investigate, and if appropriate, remove contaminated materials. ford has substantially completed the work at a number of locations, and edgewood is completing the investigation and remediation at several locations that it owns. also in march 2006, the new jersey attorney general office issued a grand jury subpoena and civil information request to ford. we are fully cooperating with the dep and the attorney general office to resolve this matter. california environmental action. on september 20, 2006, the california attorney general filed a complaint in the united states district court for the northern district of california against ford, general motors, toyota, honda, daimlerchrysler and nissan, seeking monetary damages on a joint and several basis for economic and environmental harm to california caused by global warming. the complaint alleges that cars and trucks sold in the united states constitute an environmental public nuisance under federal and california state common law. we believe that this suit is without merit, and we are filing for dismissal as soon as practicable. two years ago, eight states (including california) and several other plaintiffs filed a similar environmental public nuisance claim in the united states district court for the southern district of new york against five public utilities. that case was dismissed in 2005, when the united states district court for the southern district of new york concluded that the suit presented non-justiciable political questions. the public utilities case has been appealed to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit. class actions the following are actions filed against us on behalf of individual plaintiffs and all others similarly situated (i.e., purported class actions). in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past have ever been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed below are limited to those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if resolved unfavorably to the company, would likely involve a significant cost. explorer class actions. an illinois state court certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1991-2001 ford explorers equipped with firestone atx or wilderness tires who have not experienced any problems with either the tires or the vehicles (rowan v. ford motor company) . the complaint alleges that explorers are unstable and that the firestone tires are defective. plaintiffs claim that the value of the vehicles was diminished because of the alleged defects and seek unspecified actual and compensatory damages and other relief. no trial date is currently scheduled. a california state court certified a statewide class of purchasers and lessees of 1990-2000 ford explorers (gray v. ford motor company and four coordinated cases). the complaint alleges that explorers are unstable and that ford concealed information about them. plaintiffs seek relief similar to that sought in rowan . trial is scheduled for april 2007. there are also 14 purported statewide class actions pending in several states, raising allegations similar to those raised in rowan and in gray , and seeking similar relief. bridgestone-firestone, inc. ( firestone ) was a co-defendant in most of these cases, but settled all claims against it in these cases. the only remaining claims in these cases are based on the explorer alleged rollover propensity. 29 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings (continued) paint class actions. a state court in madison county, illinois certified a nationwide class of owners of 1989-96 model year vehicles that have experienced paint peeling. plaintiffs contend that their vehicles paint is defective in that there was a substantial risk of topcoat or clearcoat delamination, and that ford failed to disclose that risk. plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages (in an amount to cover the cost of repainting their vehicles and to compensate for alleged diminution in value), punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. no trial date is currently scheduled. blue oval certified program class action . on january 31, 2007, the united states district court for the district of new jersey certified a nationwide class of dealers who were franchisees of ford motor company ford division at any time during the period mid-2000 through march 2005. plaintiffs allege that ford blue oval certified program, which was designed to reward dealers who obtained high customer satisfaction ratings, violated the robinson-patman act, the automobile dealer day in court act, and various state laws. the complaint seeks injunctive and declaratory relief, and unspecified damages (including compensatory, statutory, treble and punitive damages). we plan to appeal the class certification order. other matters erisa fiduciary litigation. a purported class action lawsuit is pending in the united states district court for the eastern district of michigan naming as defendants ford motor company and several of our current or former employees and officers ( nowak, et al. v. ford motor company, et al. , along with three consolidated cases). the lawsuit alleges that the defendants violated erisa by failing to prudently and loyally manage funds held in employee savings plans sponsored by ford. specifically, the plaintiffs allege (among other claims) that the defendants violated fiduciary duties owed to plan participants by continuing to offer ford common stock as an investment option in the savings plans. the defendants deny the plaintiffs allegations, and intend to defend this matter vigorously. sec pension and post-employment benefit accounting inquiry. on october 14, 2004, the division of enforcement of the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) notified us that it was conducting an inquiry into the methodology used to account for pensions and other post-employment benefits. we are one of several companies to receive a request for information as part of this inquiry. we continue to cooperate with the sec in providing the information requested. sec restatement inquiry. we were contacted in november 2006 by the division of corporation finance and the division of enforcement of the sec for additional information regarding the disclosures in the current reports on form 8-k dated october 20, 2006, the annual reports on form 10-k/a for the year ended december 31, 2005, and the quarterly reports on form 10-q for the period ended september 30, 2006 filed by ford and ford credit relating to our restatement of financial results. as previously disclosed, we are voluntarily cooperating with these informal inquiries. diesel engine litigation. in january 2007, we filed suit in michigan state court against the single-source supplier of diesel engines for our super duty f-series pickup trucks. among other things, our suit seeks reimbursement for warranty and related costs involving prior model-year diesel engines supplied by international truck and engine corporation ( international ) (a subsidiary of navistar international transportation corporation). as of february 26, 2007, international has announced that it has suspended production of our 6.4l diesel engines. we believe this action is unlawful, and we intend vigorously to pursue our legal rights. our super duty f-series pickup trucks are among our most profitable vehicles; any protracted interruption of the supply of engines from international could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders not required. 30 table of contents item 4a. executive officers of ford our executive officers and their positions and ages at february 9, 2007 are as follows: present position name position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board september 2006 49 alan mulally (b) president and chief executive officer september 2006 61 lewis w. k. booth executive vice president -ford europe and premier automotive group; chairman -jaguar, land rover, volvo and ford europe october 2005 58 mark fields executive vice president -president, the americas october 2005 46 donat r. leclair, jr. executive vice president and chief financial officer august 2003 55 mark a. schulz (c) executive vice president october 2005 54 michael e. bannister group vice president -chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit company april 2004 57 francisco codina group vice president -north america marketing, sales and service march 2006 55 john fleming group vice president -president and chief executive officer, ford europe october 2005 56 derrick m. kuzak group vice president -global product development december 2006 55 joe w. laymon group vice president -corporate human resources and labor affairs october 2003 54 j c. mays group vice president -design and chief creative officer august 2003 52 ziad s. ojakli group vice president -corporate affairs january 2004 39 john g. parker group vice president -asia pacific, africa and mazda september 2006 59 richard parry-jones group vice president -chief technical officer august 2001 55 peter j. daniel senior vice president and controller september 2006 60 david g. leitch senior vice president and general counsel april 2005 46 (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, acting chair of the finance committee and a member of the environmental and public policy committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. (c) mr. schulz has announced his intention to retire. 31 table of contents item 4a. executive officers of ford (continued) all of the above officers, except those noted below, have been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. described below are the recent positions (other than those with ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with ford or its subsidiaries for five years: prior to joining ford in september 2006, mr. mulally served as executive vice president of the boeing company, and president and chief executive officer of boeing commercial airplanes. mr. mulally also was a member of boeing executive council, and served as boeing senior executive in the pacific northwest. he was named boeing president of commercial airplanes in september 1998; the responsibility of chief executive officer for the business unit was added in march 2001. mr. leitch served as the deputy assistant and deputy counsel to president george w. bush from december 2002 to march 2005. from june 2001 until december 2002, he served as chief counsel for the federal aviation administration, overseeing a staff of 290 in washington and the agency 11 regional offices. prior to june 2001, mr. leitch was a partner at hogan hartson llp in washington dc, where his practice focused on appellate litigation in state and federal court. mr. ojakli served as principal deputy for legislative affairs for president george w. bush from december 2002 to 2003, and was deputy assistant to the president from 2001 to 2002. prior to that, from 1998 to 2000, he was the policy director and chief of staff to the senate republican conference secretary. under our by-laws, the executive officers are elected by the board of directors at the annual meeting of the board of directors held for this purpose. each officer is elected to hold office until his or her successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. part ii item 5. market for ford common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states and on certain stock exchanges in belgium, france, switzerland and the united kingdom. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock for each quarterly period in 2005 and 2006: 2005 2006 first second third fourth first second third fourth quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter common stock price per share (a) high $ 14.75 $ 11.69 $ 11.19 $ 10.00 $ 8.96 $ 8.05 $ 9.48 $ 9.19 low 10.94 9.07 9.55 7.57 7.39 6.17 6.06 6.85 dividends per share of common and class b stock (b) $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.05 $ 0.00 (a) new york stock exchange composite interday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. (b) on december 15, 2006, we entered into a new secured credit facility which contains a covenant prohibiting us from paying any dividends (other than dividends payable solely in stock) on our common and class b stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. as a result, it is unlikely that we will pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding the secured credit facility and related covenants. as of february 9, 2007, stockholders of record of ford included 172,480 holders of common stock (which number does not include 1,425 former holders of old ford common stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our recapitalization, known as the value enhancement plan, which became effective on august 9, 2000) and 103 holders of class b stock. 32 table of contents item 5. market for ford common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities (continued) during the fourth quarter of 2006, we purchased shares of our common stock as follows: total number of shares maximum number average purchased (or approximate dollar value) total number price as part of publicly of shares that may yet be of shares paid announced plans purchased under the period purchased* per share or programs plans or programs no publicly announced oct. 1, 2006 through oct. 31, 2006 1,731,686 $ 8.21 0 repurchase program in place no publicly announced nov. 1, 2006 through nov. 30, 2006 1,691,819 $ 8.61 0 repurchase program in place no publicly announced dec. 1, 2006 through dec. 31, 2006 2,124,176 $ 7.32 0 repurchase program in place total 5,547,681 $ 7.99 0 * we currently do not have a publicly announced repurchase program in place. of the 5,547,681 shares purchased, 5,532,458 shares were purchased from the ford motor company savings and stock investment plan for salaried employees ( ssip ) and the tax efficient savings plan for hourly employees ( tesphe ). shares are generally purchased from ssip and tesphe when participants in those plans elect to sell units in the ford stock fund upon retirement, upon termination of employment with the company, related to an in-service distribution, or to fund a loan against an existing account balance in the ford stock fund. shares are not purchased from these plans when a participant transfers account balances out of the ford stock fund and into another investment option under the plans. for the full year 2006, we purchased 23,766,410 shares on such basis from participants in ssip and tesphe. the remaining shares were acquired from our employees or directors in accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share withholdings to pay income taxes with respect to: (i) the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock, (ii) the issuance of unrestricted stock, including issuances as a result of the conversion of restricted stock equivalents, or (iii) to pay the exercise price and related income taxes with respect to certain exercises of stock options. 33 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts). 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 summary of operations total company sales and revenues $ 160,123 $ 176,896 $ 172,316 $ 166,095 $ 167,000 income/(loss) before income taxes $ (15,051 ) $ 1,079 $ 4,109 $ 914 $ 4,036 provision/(credit) for income taxes (2,646 ) (845 ) 643 (46 ) 1,459 minority interests in net income of subsidiaries 210 280 282 314 367 income/(loss) from continuing operations (12,615 ) 1,644 3,184 646 2,210 income/(loss) from discontinued operations 2 47 (146 ) (143 ) (333 ) cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (251 ) (264 ) (1,002 ) net income/(loss) $ (12,613 ) $ 1,440 $ 3,038 $ 239 $ 875 automotive sector sales $ 143,307 $ 153,474 $ 147,119 $ 139,433 $ 134,706 operating income/(loss) (17,921 ) (4,188 ) (200 ) (1,035 ) (507 ) income/(loss) before income taxes (17,017 ) (3,874 ) (178 ) (1,387 ) (957 ) financial services sector revenues $ 16,816 $ 23,422 $ 25,197 $ 26,662 $ 32,294 income/(loss) before income taxes 1,966 4,953 4,287 2,301 4,993 total company data per share of common and class b stock basic: income/(loss) from continuing operations $ (6.72 ) $ 0.89 $ 1.74 $ 0.35 $ 1.21 income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.19 ) cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.14 ) (0.14 ) (0.55 ) net income/(loss) $ (6.72 ) $ 0.78 $ 1.66 $ 0.13 $ 0.47 diluted: income/(loss) from continuing operations $ (6.72 ) $ 0.87 $ 1.59 $ 0.35 $ 1.14 income/(loss) from discontinued/held-for-sale operations 0.02 (0.07 ) (0.08 ) (0.16 ) cumulative effects of change in accounting principle (0.12 ) (0.14 ) (0.47 ) net income/(loss) $ (6.72 ) $ 0.77 $ 1.52 $ 0.13 $ 0.51 cash dividends $ 0.25 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 common stock price range (nyse composite) high $ 9.48 $ 14.75 $ 17.34 $ 17.33 $ 18.23 low 6.06 7.57 12.61 6.58 6.90 average number of shares of common and class b stock outstanding (in millions) 1,879 1,846 1,830 1,832 1,819 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 122,634 $ 113,825 $ 113,251 $ 111,208 $ 100,140 financial services sector 169,050 162,194 189,188 195,509 187,576 intersector elimination (1,467 ) (83 ) (2,753 ) (3,356 ) (5,865 ) total assets $ 290,217 $ 275,936 $ 299,686 $ 303,361 $ 281,851 long-term debt automotive sector $ 28,514 $ 16,900 $ 17,250 $ 18,758 $ 13,363 financial services sector 115,859 103,080 112,080 123,655 121,304 total long-term debt $ 144,373 $ 119,980 $ 129,330 $ 142,413 $ 134,667 stockholders equity $ (3,465 ) $ 13,442 $ 17,437 $ 13,459 $ 7,633 34 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview generation of revenue, income and cash our automotive sector revenue, income and cash are generated primarily from sales of vehicles to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers and are deemed sold (with the proceeds from such sale recognized in revenue) immediately after they are produced and shipped to our customers. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles). vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. when we sell the vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. in addition, revenue for finished vehicles we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer. therefore, except for the impact of the daily rental units sold subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, those units placed into our own fleet, and those units for which recognition of revenue is otherwise deferred, wholesale volumes to our customers and revenue from such sales are closely linked with our production. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, ford credit receives interest supplements and other support cost payments from the automotive sector in connection with special vehicle financing and leasing programs that it sponsors. ford credit records these payments as revenue, and the automotive sector makes the related cash payments, over the expected life of the related finance receivable or operating lease. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. our automotive sector records the estimated costs of marketing incentives, including dealer and retail customer cash payments (e.g., rebates) and costs of special financing and leasing programs, as a reduction to revenue. these reductions to revenue are accrued at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to the dealer are recorded or at the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry excess capacity. according to csm worldwide, an automotive research firm, in 2006 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (about 79 million units) significantly exceeded global production of cars and trucks (about 65 million units). in north america and europe, the two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess capacity was an estimated 16% and 14%, respectively. according to production capacity data projected by csm worldwide, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several more years, with planned capacity reductions announced by us and general motors corporation offset by increases in capacity additions in asia pacific markets. 35 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments by the industry, will keep pressure on manufacturers ability to increase prices on their products. in addition, the incremental new u.s. manufacturing capacity of japanese and korean manufacturers in recent years has contributed, and is likely to continue to contribute, to the severe pricing pressure in that market. for example, in 2006, toyota completed construction of an assembly plant in texas that reportedly will be capable of producing at least 200,000 full-size pick-up trucks per year. the reduction of real prices for similarly contented vehicles in the united states has become more pronounced since the late 1990s, and we expect that a challenging pricing environment will continue for some time to come. in addition, the japanese yen remains weak against the u.s. dollar and at historic lows against the euro, contributing substantially to japanese vehicle manufacturers significant cost advantage, especially on exports from japan to these markets. in europe, the automotive industry also has experienced intense pricing pressure for several years, exacerbated in recent years by the block exemption regulation discussed above in item 1. business automotive sector. consumer spending trends. we expect, however, that a decline in or the inability to increase vehicle prices could be offset by the spending habits of consumers and their propensity to purchase over time higher-end, more expensive vehicles and/or vehicles with more features. over the next decade, in the united states and other mature markets, we expect that growth in spending on vehicle mix and content will change generally in line with gdp or above. the benefits of this to revenue growth in the automotive industry are significant. in the united states, for example, consumers in the highest income brackets are buying more often and are more frequently buying upscale. although growth in wholesales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade, we expect that the mature automotive markets (e.g., north america, western europe, and japan) will continue to be the source of a majority of global industry revenues. we also expect that the north american market will continue as the single largest source of revenue for the automotive industry in the world. health care expenses. in 2006, our health care expenses for u.s. employees, retirees, and their dependents were $3.1 billion, with about $1.8 billion for postretirement health care and the balance for active employee health care and other retiree expense. although we have taken measures to have employees and retirees bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits, we expect our health care costs to continue to increase. for 2007, our trend assumptions for u.s. health care costs include an initial trend rate of six percent, gradually declining to a steady state trend rate of five percent reached in 2011. these assumptions include the effect of actions we are taking and expect to take to offset health care inflation, including eligibility management, employee education and wellness programs, competitive sourcing, and employee cost sharing. commodity and energy price increases. commodity price increases, particularly for steel and resins (which are our two largest commodity exposures and among the most difficult to hedge), have occurred recently and are continuing during a period of strong global demand for these materials. in addition, energy prices continued to increase significantly in 2006. in particular, gasoline prices in the united states increased in volatility and rose to levels over $3.00 per gallon in 2006. although prices have moderated somewhat, they remain and are expected to remain at high levels. this has had an adverse effect on the demand for full- and medium-sized sport utility vehicles and trucks in the united states. currency exchange rate volatility. the u.s. dollar has depreciated against most major currencies since 2002. this created downward margin pressure on auto manufacturers that have u.s. dollar revenue with foreign currency cost. because we produce vehicles in europe (e.g., jaguar, land rover, aston martin and volvo models) for sale in the united states and produce components in europe (e.g., engines) for use in some of our north american vehicles, we experienced margin pressure. although this pressure was offset partially by gains on foreign exchange derivatives, this offset declines over time due to the expiration of favorable hedges previously put in place. we, like many other automotive manufacturers with sales in the united states, are not always able to price for depreciation of the u.s. dollar due to the extremely competitive pricing environment in the united states. 36 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) other economic factors. additional factors have recently affected the performance of the automotive industry. in the united states, 2006 was a period of a significant contraction in the housing market. as a result, residential construction of new homes declined by 4.2% (after inflation). this adjustment had two effects on automotive sales and revenue directly, through its adverse effect on gdp growth, and as a contributing factor to potential softer demand for truck sales. both of these factors may continue to contribute to lower light vehicle sales in the united states. co 2 emissions standards for medium and heavy trucks. new, more stringent u.s. regulatory requirements for truck emissions took effect on january 1, 2007, which increased the cost of engines used in medium and heavy trucks. these standards did not apply to vehicles purchased prior to the implementation of the new regulations. as a result, sales of medium and heavy trucks were elevated in 2006 as buyers pulled ahead orders that they would otherwise have made at a later date. this may result in a deterioration of the sales pace for medium and heavy trucks in 2007. trends and strategies the global automotive marketplace has become increasingly fragmented and crowded, and we anticipate that this trend will continue to accelerate into the future. anticipating little growth in the overall volume of vehicles sold in north america for the foreseeable future, we expect more manufacturers to offer an increasing number of products in this market. to address this market reality and the factors and trends affecting the automotive industry discussed above, we have been focusing on the following four key priorities: restructuring the company to be profitable at lower volumes and with a changed vehicle mix; accelerating product development and reducing manufacturing complexity; obtaining and maintaining adequate liquidity to fund the first two priorities; and working together through teamwork and accountability. restructuring the company to compete more effectively in today global marketplace, and particularly in north america, we have embarked on a plan to restructure aggressively our automotive business to address the realities of lower demand, higher fuel prices and the shifting model mix from trucks and large suvs to more fuel-efficient vehicles. on january 23, 2006, we announced a major business improvement plan for our north american automotive operations, which we referred to as the way forward plan. on september 15, 2006, responding to changing facts and circumstances, we announced an acceleration of this plan, including actions designed to further reduce operating costs and increase the flow of new products. personnel reductions acceleration of the way forward plan includes additional reductions of our capacity and workforce to contribute to our goal of reducing annual north america operating costs by about $5 billion by the end of 2008 as compared with 2005. our accelerated plan reduces salaried-related costs through the elimination of the equivalent of about 14,000 salaried-related positions, which represents about one-third of our north american salaried workforce. this reduction includes our elimination of the equivalent of nearly 5,000 salaried positions by the end of 2006; the additional reductions are being achieved through early retirements, voluntary separations and, as necessary, involuntary separations, with most employee departures expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2007. by agreement with the uaw, we also extended early retirement or separation packages to all u.s. hourly employees, including ford employees at our ach plants. through year-end 2006, about 37,000 hourly employees represented by the uaw had accepted (and not rescinded) an early retirement or separation offer. the vast majority of these employees are expected to separate from the company by september 2007, though many of the offers include an opportunity for the employee to rescind acceptance until the time of separation. the accelerated plan to sell or close all ach facilities by the end of 2008 will result in additional personnel reductions. 37 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) overall, including ach hourly employees, at december 31, 2006 we had about 89,000 hourly employees in north america (including canada and mexico), which is down from about 99,500 employees at year-end 2005. by the end of 2008, our plan is to operate with between 55,000 to 60,000 hourly employees in north america. capacity alignment we also intend to reduce and realign our vehicle assembly capacity to bring it more in line with demand and shifting customer preferences. there are several ways to measure our vehicle assembly capacity, two of which are installed capacity and manned capacity. installed capacity refers to the physical capability of the plant and equipment to assemble vehicles if fully manned. manned capacity refers to the degree to which the installed capacity has been staffed. in addition, in north america there generally exists the capability to work overtime or schedule downtime to adjust the manned capacity in the short term to match sales. in the longer term, a useful measure of capacity is maximum installed capacity. this reflects the full physical capacity of the plant and equipment, including maximum overtime. in the shorter term, a useful measure is straight-time manned capacity. this reflects the extent to which labor is being utilized to make the installed capacity capable of actually assembling vehicles. since year-end 2005, we have reduced our north american maximum installed capacity (with all plants operating on two shifts) and straight-time manned capacity from 4.8 million units and 3.6 million units, respectively, to 4.1 million units and 3.4 million units, respectively. as indicated in the table below, our plan is to further reduce our north american assembly capacity on both bases by the end of 2008. our projected north american vehicle production divided by our planned maximum installed assembly capacity of 3.6 million units results in a capacity utilization rate of 84% in 2008. our north american straight-time manned capacity utilization in 2008 is projected to be 100% as a result of plant idlings as well as shift eliminations and line speed reductions. reducing our manned capacity in this manner allows us to achieve major cost savings and coordinates plant idlings with planned product changes, which we believe is the best economic approach. 2008 projected assembly capacity capacity utilization capacity measure (mil. units) (percent) maximum installed * 3.6 84 % manned straight-time 3.0 100 % * based on a two-shift operating pattern we plan to reduce our maximum installed assembly capacity in north america by the end of the decade so that it closely matches projected sales of ford, lincoln and mercury brand units. as part of this reduction, we have announced plans to idle 16 north american manufacturing facilities, including seven vehicle assembly plants, by the end of 2012. of these, the following nine facilities have been or are planned to be idled by the end of 2008: atlanta assembly plant (idled in 2006); batavia transmission plant (to be idled in 2008); essex engine plant (to be idled in 2007); maumee stamping plant (to be idled in 2008); norfolk assembly plant (to be idled in 2007); st. louis assembly plant (idled in 2006); twin cities assembly plant (to be idled in 2008); windsor casting plant (to be idled in 2007); and wixom assembly plant (to be idled in 2007). 38 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) also, in 2007, we have eliminated or plan to eliminate a shift at each of the norfolk, twin cities, st. thomas (ontario) and michigan truck assembly plants, and plan to add a third crew at the dearborn truck assembly plant to accommodate additional f-150 truck production. additionally, we plan to sell or close all of the 13 remaining ach plants by the end of 2008. of these, we have entered into nonbinding memoranda of understanding for the sale of three ach plants. accelerating product development and reducing manufacturing complexity as part of our acceleration of the way forward plan, 70 percent of ford, lincoln, and mercury products (by volume) in north america will be new or significantly upgraded by the end of 2008 compared with 2006 models; these efforts will include the expansion of our product lineup in growth segments such as crossover vehicles. we have most recently introduced or will introduce in the next few months the following new models: ford north america : the all-new ford edge and lincoln mkx crossover models, substantially new versions of the ford expedition and lincoln navigator models, new models of our segment-leading ford super duty trucks, and new versions of the lincoln mkz sedan and ford escape and mercury mariner compact sport utility vehicles and hybrids; ford europe : the award-winning ford s-max crossover vehicle (named car of the year 2007 in europe), galaxy minivan, and transit truck (named international van of the year 2007 in europe); and pag : jaguar xkr coupe, land rover/freelander/lr2 suvs, volvo s80 sedan and volvo c30 coupe. in addition, we are continuing to invest in new gasoline, flexible-fuel, diesel, hydrogen, and hybrid powertrains, as well as fuel-saving six-speed transmission technology. we plan to accelerate the development of new products designed to meet shifting consumer preferences for more fuel-efficient, smaller vehicles. to facilitate this, we have reorganized our product development activities into a unified and integrated global organization that reports directly to our chief executive officer, and we are developing a truly global product plan that takes full advantage of our global product development assets, technologies and people. by leveraging our scale, we will be able to apply our global product development capital and engineering resources to fewer vehicle platforms, drivetrains and powertrains. this commonality of platforms, drivetrains and powertrains, in turn, will reduce complexity in our vehicles and processes. moreover, as we make our investments in new products, we will continue to improve our production system quality, productivity and flexibility. ford i-4 duratec engine family (1.8l through 2.5l) is an example of how commonality can work. the i-4 duratec is being used by ford europe (focus and mondeo models), volvo (s40 model), ford asia pacific (focus and volvo s40 models), ford north america (focus, escape/mariner, fusion/milan models), and by mazda in several of its vehicles. for the ford-brand models, this is expected to represent production in 2007 of more than 800,000 i-4 duratec engines and annual production in the next few years of more than one million engines. obtaining and maintaining adequate liquidity as discussed below under liquidity and capital resources automotive sector and in note 15 of the notes to the financial statements, we obtained $23.5 billion of new liquidity in december 2006, including proceeds from a convertible debt offering of $4.95 billion, proceeds from a secured term loan of $7 billion and a secured revolving credit facility of $11.5 billion. this resulted in total automotive liquidity of about $46 billion at year-end 2006, which we believe should allow us to fund the restructuring and product development priorities discussed above, and provide us with a cushion for a recession or other unforeseen events in the near term. 39 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) working together through teamwork and accountability our global management team is focused on a single, company-wide global business plan that establishes clear performance goals for the entire company. this requires all functions product development, purchasing, information technology, manufacturing, etc, across the globe to work together and be accountable to meet the performance goals established by our business plan. to facilitate this, our senior management team has established weekly meetings to assess our progress against the business plan goals, to identify risks to meeting and opportunities for exceeding those goals, and to make decisions about actions to take to mitigate risks or implement opportunities to stay on track to meet or exceed those goals. financial impact and assumptions execution of the four priorities discussed above is expected to result in our ford north america segment, and our automotive sector overall, being profitable in 2009. this projection is based on the following operating assumptions in the 2008 and 2009 time period: sales volume and mix of products stabilizing in north america, with u.s. market share in the 14% to 15% range for ford, lincoln and mercury brands, and lower fleet sales as a percentage of total sales. this in part reflects cessation in 2006 of production of the ford taurus sedan in atlanta and ford freestar and mercury monterey minivans in oakville, ontario. in addition, we expect growth in sales volumes outside the united states. cumulative reduction in annual operating costs for our ford north america segment of about $5 billion by the end of 2008 compared with 2005, largely reflecting the personnel and capacity reductions discussed above, and continuing cost improvements in 2009. for a discussion of our liquidity needs and uses during this period, see liquidity and capital resources automotive sector below. for a discussion of the outlook for our 2007 full-year performance, see outlook below. 40 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations full-year 2006 results of operations our worldwide net income was a loss of $12.6 billion or $6.72 per share of common and class b stock in 2006, down $14 billion from a profit of $1.4 billion or $0.77 per share in 2005. results by business sector for 2006, 2005, and 2004 are shown below (in millions): 2006 2005 2004 income/(loss) before income taxes automotive sector $ (17,017 ) $ (3,874 ) $ (178 ) financial services sector 1,966 4,953 4,287 total company (15,051 ) 1,079 4,109 provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (a) (2,646 ) (845 ) 643 minority interests in net income/(loss) of subsidiaries (b) 210 280 282 income/(loss) from continuing operations (12,615 ) 1,644 3,184 income/(loss) from discontinued operations 2 47 (146 ) cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (c) (251 ) net income/(loss) $ (12,613 ) $ 1,440 $ 3,038 (a) see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for disclosure regarding 2006 effective tax rate. (b) primarily related to ford europe consolidated 41%-owned affiliate, ford otosan; the decrease in 2006 primarily reflected the impact on deferred tax balances of tax law changes in turkey. the pre-tax results for ford otosan were $509 million in 2006, $503 million in 2005, and $452 million in 2004. see item 2. properties for additional discussion of ford otosan. (c) see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements. included in income/(loss) before income taxes are items we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating activities ( special items ). the following table details 2006, 2005, and 2004 special items by segment or business unit (in millions): 2006 2005 2004 automotive sector ford north america jobs bank benefits and personnel-reduction programs (a) $ (4,760 ) $ (401 ) $ pension curtailment charges (2,741 ) fixed asset impairment charges (2,200 ) u.s. plant idlings (primarily fixed-asset write-offs) (281 ) visteon-related charges (primarily valuation allowance against employee-related receivables) (b) (468 ) (600 ) fuel-cell technology charges (116 ) (182 ) divestiture of non-core business (beanstalk group, llc) (59 ) changes in state non-income tax law 85 total ford north america (9,982 ) (959 ) (782 ) ford south america legal settlement relating to social welfare tax liability 110 ford europe personnel-reduction programs (84 ) (510 ) (49 ) premier automotive group ( pag ) jaguar and land rover fixed asset impairment charges (1,600 ) (1,300 ) personnel-reduction programs/other (378 ) (245 ) (110 ) ford asia pacific and africa/mazda personnel-reduction programs (103 ) (33 ) mazda pension transfer 115 divestiture of non-core business (certain australia dealerships) 14 (81 ) other automotive divestiture of non-core businesses (primarily related to kwik-fit group limited) 152 17 total automotive sector (11,922 ) (2,881 ) (1,005 ) financial services sector divestiture of non-core business (the hertz corporation ( hertz )) 1,499 property clean-up settlement 45 total $ (11,922 ) $ (1,382 ) $ (960 ) (a) see note 17 of the notes to the financial statements for definition and discussion of jobs bank benefits. (b) see notes 19 and 23 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of visteon-related charges. 41 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive sector results of operations our discussion of automotive sector results of operations is on a pre-tax basis. 2006 compared with 2005 details by automotive segment or business unit of income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): 2006 over/ (under) 2006 2005 2005 the americas ford north america $ (15,969 ) $ (2,444 ) $ (13,525 ) ford south america 661 399 262 total the americas (15,308 ) (2,045 ) (13,263 ) ford europe and pag ford europe 371 (437 ) 808 pag (2,322 ) (1,634 ) (688 ) total ford europe and pag (1,951 ) (2,071 ) 120 ford asia pacific and africa/mazda ford asia pacific and africa (250 ) 42 (292 ) mazda and associated operations 245 255 (10 ) total ford asia pacific and africa/mazda (5 ) 297 (302 ) other automotive 247 (55 ) 302 total $ (17,017 ) $ (3,874 ) $ (13,143 ) details of automotive sector sales and wholesale unit volumes by automotive segment or business unit for 2006 and 2005 are shown below: sales wholesales (a) (in billions) (in thousands) 2006 2006 over/(under) over/(under) 2006 2005 2005 2006 2005 2005 the americas ford north america $ 69.4 $ 80.6 $ (11.2 ) (14 )% 3,051 3,410 (359 ) (11 )% ford south america 5.7 4.4 1.3 30 381 335 46 14 total the americas 75.1 85.0 (9.9 ) (12 ) 3,432 3,745 (313 ) (8 ) ford europe and pag ford europe 30.4 29.9 0.5 2 1,846 1,753 93 5 pag 30.0 30.3 (0.3 ) (1 ) 730 764 (34 ) (4 ) total ford europe and pag 60.4 60.2 0.2 2,576 2,517 59 2 ford asia pacific and africa/mazda ford asia pacific and africa (b) 6.5 7.7 (1.2 ) (15 ) 517 473 44 9 mazda and associated operations (c) 1.3 0.6 0.7 72 32 40 total ford asia pacific and africa/mazda 7.8 8.3 (0.5 ) (6 ) 589 505 84 17 total $ 143.3 $ 153.5 $ (10.2 ) (7 )% 6,597 6,767 (170 ) (3 )% (a) wholesale unit volumes generally are reported on a where-sold basis, and include all ford-badged units and units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes. for a discussion of our revenue recognition policy for these sales, see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements. (b) included in wholesale unit volumes of ford asia pacific and africa are ford-badged vehicles sold in china and malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 159,000 and 87,000 units in 2006 and 2005, respectively. sales above does not include revenue from these units. (c) reflects sales of mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, autoalliance international, inc. ( aai ), beginning with the consolidation of aai in the third quarter of 2005. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. 42 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) details of automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2006 and 2005, along with the level of dealer stocks as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, are shown below: dealer-owned stocks (a) market share (in thousands) 2006 2006 over/(under) over/(under) market 2006 2005 2005 2006 2005 2005 u.s. (b) 16.0 % 17.0 % (1.0 )pts. 570 733 (163 ) south america (b) (c) 11.5 12.0 (0.5 ) 40 33 7 europe (b) (d) 8.5 8.5 322 342 (20 ) pag u.s./europe (d) 1.1/2.1 1.2/2.2 (0.1)/(0.1 ) 34/67 45/69 (11)/(2 ) asia pacific and africa (b) (e) (f) 2.4 2.4 50 50 (a) dealer-owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) includes only ford and, in certain markets (primarily u.s.), lincoln and mercury brands. (c) south america market share is based on vehicle retail sales for our six major markets (argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela). (d) european 2006 market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for our 19 major european markets. see "item 1. business'' for discussion of these markets. (e) asia pacific and africa 2006 market share is based on estimated vehicle retail sales for our 12 major markets (australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand, and vietnam). (f) dealer-owned stocks for asia pacific and africa include primarily ford-brand vehicles as well as a small number of units distributed for other manufacturers. overall automotive sector the decline in earnings reflected the effect of jobs bank benefits charges and higher personnel-reduction program charges for our ford north america segment, unfavorable volume and mix (mainly lower market share, adverse product mix in ford north america, and lower dealer stock levels), pension curtailment charges, impairment charges related to our long-lived assets in ford north america and jaguar and land rover operations, and unfavorable net pricing. these adverse factors were offset partially by favorable cost changes. our efforts to restructure the ford north america business resulted in the jobs bank benefits and personnel-reduction program charges, and the related pension curtailment charges. the decline in revenue primarily reflected lower wholesale unit volumes in ford north america, adverse product mix, and unfavorable net pricing. the table below details our 2006 cost changes at constant volume, mix, and exchange, excluding special items and discontinued operations (in billions): 2006 better/(worse) than explanation of cost changes 2005 manufacturing and engineering primarily hourly and salaried personnel reductions and continued improvements in our plants and processes. $ 1.0 pension and other postretirement employee benefits ( opeb ) primarily improvements beginning in the third quarter associated with our retiree health cost sharing agreement with the uaw, and improvements related to revisions to our salaried benefit plans, offset partially by the impact of reducing the discount rate and long-term expected return assumptions. 0.5 overhead primarily related to salaried personnel reductions. 0.4 net product pricing reductions from our suppliers and net design cost reductions, offset primarily by commodity price increases. 0.1 depreciation and amortization acceleration of depreciation resulting from ongoing improvement plans including the announced facility idlings, offset partially by the favorable impact of impairment charges for long-lived assets and the favorable impact of the change in special tooling amortization methodology. (0.1 ) warranty-related primarily reflects adjustments to jaguar and land rover warranty accruals related to unfavorable prior model-year performance and the non-recurrence in 2006 of favorable reserve adjustments, offset partially by favorable coverage performance in ford north america. (0.1 ) advertising sales promotions primarily increased advertising costs. (0.3 ) total $ 1.5 43 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the americas ford north america segment. the decline in earnings primarily reflected the effect of jobs bank benefits charges and higher personnel-reduction program charges, unfavorable volume and mix (mainly adverse product mix, lower market share, a reduction in stock levels, and lower industry volumes), pension curtailment charges, unfavorable net pricing, and impairment charges related to our long-lived assets, offset partially by favorable cost changes. the favorable cost changes reflected improvements in pension and opeb costs, manufacturing and engineering costs, warranty-related costs, and overhead costs. ford south america segment. the increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing, favorable volume and mix more than accounted for by higher industry volume, and a legal settlement relating to social welfare tax liability, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes. the unfavorable cost changes primarily reflected higher net product costs, and manufacturing and engineering costs. ford europe and pag ford europe segment. the improvement in results primarily reflected reduced charges for personnel-reduction programs, favorable volume and mix, and favorable cost changes, offset partially by unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. the favorable cost changes primarily reflected lower overhead costs, warranty-related costs, net product costs, and manufacturing and engineering costs, offset partially by higher pension costs. pag segment. the decline in earnings primarily reflected unfavorable warranty-related costs mainly associated with adjustments to warranty accruals for prior model-year vehicles (mainly at jaguar and land rover), unfavorable currency exchange (mainly related to the expiration of favorable hedges), and higher impairment charges for long-lived assets of the jaguar and land rover operations. these adverse factors were offset partially by favorable manufacturing and engineering costs, favorable volume and mix (mainly improved product and market mix, offset partially by lower market share primarily at volvo and jaguar and lower levels of dealer stocks) and lower net product costs. ford asia pacific and africa/mazda ford asia pacific and africa/mazda segment. the decline in results for ford asia pacific and africa primarily reflected unfavorable volume and mix (mainly adverse product mix including lower large car sales in australia, and lower market share) and unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. wholesale unit volumes for the year increased, while revenue for the same period decreased. the increase in wholesale unit volumes is explained by higher unit sales in china and india, offset partially by declines in other markets (primarily australia and taiwan). our revenue excludes wholesale unit volumes at our unconsolidated affiliates, primarily those in china. the decrease in revenue primarily reflects changes in currency exchange rates and a higher mix of small cars relative to the same period last year. the decrease in earnings for mazda and associated operations primarily reflected the non-recurrence of gains on our investment in mazda convertible bonds, and charges for personnel-reduction programs at aai, offset partially by our share of a gain mazda realized on the transfer of its pension liabilities back to the japanese government. during the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, we converted to equity all of our mazda convertible bonds, and, therefore, will no longer have income effects from mark-to-market adjustments for these bonds. other automotive the improvement in results primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash, and a higher average cash portfolio, offset partially by the non-recurrence of a gain on the sale of our remaining interest in kwik-fit group limited. 44 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2005 compared with 2004 details by automotive segment or business unit of income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): 2005 over/ (under) 2005 2004 2004 the americas ford north america $ (2,444 ) $ 525 $ (2,969 ) ford south america 399 144 255 total the americas (2,045 ) 669 (2,714 ) ford europe and pag ford europe (437 ) 177 (614 ) pag (1,634 ) (830 ) (804 ) total ford europe and pag (2,071 ) (653 ) (1,418 ) ford asia pacific and africa/mazda ford asia pacific and africa 42 (36 ) 78 mazda and associated operations 255 118 137 total ford asia pacific and africa/mazda 297 82 215 other automotive (55 ) (276 ) 221 total $ (3,874 ) $ (178 ) $ (3,696 ) details of automotive sector sales and wholesale unit volumes by automotive segment or business unit for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: sales wholesales (a) (in billions) (in thousands) 2005 2005 over/(under) over/(under) 2005 2004 2004 2005 2004 2004 the americas ford north america $ 80.6 $ 83.0 $ (2.4 ) (3 )% 3,410 3,613 (203 ) (6 )% ford south america 4.4 3.0 1.4 46 335 291 44 15 total the americas 85.0 86.0 (1.0 ) (1 ) 3,745 3,904 (159 ) (4 ) ford europe and pag ford europe 29.9 26.5 3.4 13 1,753 1,736 17 1 pag 30.3 27.6 2.7 10 764 773 (9 ) (1 ) total ford europe and pag 60.2 54.1 6.1 11 2,517 2,509 8 ford asia pacific and africa/mazda ford asia pacific and africa (b) 7.7 7.0 0.7 10 473 429 44 10 mazda and associated operations (c) 0.6 0.6 32 32 total ford asia pacific and africa/mazda 8.3 7.0 1.3 19 505 429 76 18 total $ 153.5 $ 147.1 $ 6.4 4 % 6,767 6,842 (75 ) (1 )% (a) wholesale unit volumes generally are reported on a where-sold basis, and include all ford-badged units and units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, as well as units distributed for other manufacturers. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), are included in wholesale unit volumes. for a discussion of our revenue recognition policy for such sales, see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements. (b) included in wholesales of ford asia pacific and africa are ford-badged vehicles sold in china and malaysia by certain unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 87,000 and 66,000 units in 2005 and 2004, respectively. sales above does not include revenue from these units. (c) reflects sales of mazda6 by our consolidated subsidiary, aai, beginning with the consolidation of aai in the third quarter of 2005. see note 13 of the notes to the financial statements. 45 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) details of automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2005 and 2004, along with the level of dealer stocks as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, are shown below: dealer-owned stocks (a) market share (in thousands) 2005 2005 over/(under) over/(under) market 2005 2004 2004 2005 2004 2004 u.s. (b) 17.0 % 18.0 % (1.0 )pts. 733 794 (61 ) south america (b) (c) 12.0 11.9 0.1 33 29 4 europe (b) (d) 8.5 8.6 (0.1 ) 342 356 (14 ) pag u.s./europe (d) 1.2/2.2 1.3/2.3 (0.1)/(0.1 ) 45/69 41/68 4/1 asia pacific and africa (b) (e) (f) 2.4 2.3 0.1 50 46 4 (a) dealer-owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers, as well as some vehicles reflected in our inventory. (b) includes only ford and, in certain markets (primarily u.s.), lincoln and mercury brands. (c) south america market share is based on vehicle retail sales for our six major markets (argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador, and venezuela). (d) european market share is based, in part, on vehicle registrations for our 19 major european markets. (e) asia pacific and africa market share is based on vehicle retail sales for our 12 major markets (australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand, and vietnam). (f) dealer-owned stocks for asia pacific and africa include primarily ford-brand vehicles as well as a small number of units distributed for other manufacturers. overall automotive sector the decline in earnings reflected losses at our ford north america segment, an impairment charge for long-lived assets of jaguar and land rover operations, and higher charges for personnel reduction programs, offset partially by favorable market performance at land rover and increased earnings at our ford south america segment, other automotive, and ford asia pacific and africa/mazda segment. the improvement in revenues primarily reflected favorable product mix and favorable changes in currency exchange rates. the americas ford north america segment. the decline in results primarily reflected lower u.s. market share, unfavorable cost changes, lower dealer stock levels, charges for personnel-reduction programs, and unfavorable currency exchange. unfavorable cost changes primarily reflected higher warranty-related costs and net product costs. ford south america segment. the increase in earnings primarily reflected favorable net pricing, higher industry volumes, and favorable currency exchange, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes. the unfavorable cost changes primarily reflected higher net product costs and overhead costs. ford europe and pag ford europe segment. the decline in results primarily reflected higher charges for personnel-reduction programs, unfavorable net pricing, and adverse product and market mix, offset partially by favorable cost changes and favorable changes in currency exchange rates. the favorable cost changes primarily reflected lower manufacturing and engineering costs offset partially by unfavorable warranty-related costs. pag segment. the decline in earnings primarily reflected an impairment charge for long-lived assets of the jaguar and land rover operations, unfavorable currency exchange, and higher charges for personnel-reduction programs, offset partially by favorable net pricing, improved product mix primarily reflecting the impact of new land rover products, and favorable cost changes. the favorable cost changes primarily reflected lower warranty-related costs and favorable manufacturing and engineering costs offset partially by higher net product costs. 46 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford asia pacific and africa/mazda ford asia pacific and africa/mazda segment. the improvement in results for ford asia pacific and africa primarily reflected the non-recurrence of 2004 charges related to the disposition of certain dealerships, favorable changes in currency exchange rates, and a gain on the disposal of our investment in mahindra mahindra ltd., offset partially by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with new products and facilities in china, and charges for personnel-reduction programs. the increase in earnings for mazda and associated operations primarily reflected gains on our investment in mazda convertible bonds and improved mazda operating results. in the second half of 2005, we converted to equity about 82.5% of our mazda convertible bonds. other automotive the improvement in earnings primarily reflected higher returns on invested cash and a gain on the sale of non-core businesses, offset partially by lower interest on tax refunds from prior-year federal and state tax matters (about $450 million in 2005 compared with $600 million in 2004). financial services sector results of operations our discussion of financial services sector results of operations is on a pre-tax basis. 2006 compared with 2005 details of the full-year financial services sector revenues and income/(loss) before income taxes for 2006 and 2005 are shown below: revenues income/(loss) before income taxes (in billions) (in millions) 2006 2006 over/(under) over/(under) 2006 2005 2005 2006 2005 2005 ford credit $ 16.5 $ 15.9 $ 0.6 $ 1,953 $ 2,923 $ (970 ) other financial services 0.3 0.1 0.2 13 (39 ) 52 hertz operating results 7.4 (7.4 ) 974 (974 ) gain on sale of hertz* 1,095 (1,095 ) total $ 16.8 $ 23.4 $ (6.6 ) $ 1,966 $ 4,953 $ (2,987 ) * the segment presentation of the gain on sale of hertz in note 24 of the notes to the financial statements is $1,006 million in the hertz segment and $89 million in other financial services. we sold hertz during the fourth quarter of 2005, resulting in declines in revenues and income/(loss) before income taxes during 2006. ford credit the decrease in ford credit's full-year earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs, higher depreciation expense, and the impact of lower average receivable levels in its managed portfolio. these were offset partially by market valuations, primarily related to non-designated derivatives and reduced operating costs. ford credit reviews its business performance from several perspectives, including: on-balance sheet basis . includes the receivables and leases ford credit owns and securitized receivables and leases that remain on ford credit balance sheet (including other structured financings and factoring transactions that have features similar to securitizations); 47 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) securitized off-balance sheet basi s. includes receivables sold in securitization transactions that are not reflected on ford credit balance sheet; managed basis . includes on-balance sheet and securitized off-balance sheet receivables and leases that ford credit continues to service; and serviced basis . includes managed receivables and leases and receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions where ford credit retains no interest in the sold receivables, but which it continues to service. ford credit analyzes its financial performance primarily on a managed and on-balance sheet basis. it retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitizations and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, has credit risk. as a result, it evaluates credit losses, receivables, and leverage on a managed basis as well as on an on-balance sheet basis. in contrast, ford credit does not have the same financial interest in the performance of receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions, and, as a result, ford credit generally reviews the performance of its serviced portfolio only to evaluate the effectiveness of its origination and collection activities. to evaluate the performance of these activities, ford credit monitors a number of measures, such as repossession statistics, losses on repossessions and the number of bankruptcy filings. ford credit receivable levels are shown in the table below (in billions): december 31, 2006 2005 on-balance sheet finance receivables retail installment $ 70.4 $ 65.7 wholesale 35.2 39.6 other 3.8 4.6 total finance receivables, net 109.4 109.9 net investment in operating leases 25.9 22.2 total on-balance sheet* $ 135.3 $ 132.1 memo: allowance for credit losses included above $ 1.1 $ 1.6 securitized off-balance sheet finance receivables retail installment $ 12.2 $ 18.0 wholesale other total finance receivables 12.2 18.0 net investment in operating leases total securitized off-balance sheet $ 12.2 $ 18.0 managed finance receivables retail installment $ 82.6 $ 83.7 wholesale 35.2 39.6 other 3.8 4.6 total finance receivables, net 121.6 127.9 net investment in operating leases 25.9 22.2 total managed $ 147.5 $ 150.1 serviced $ 149.5 $ 153.0 * at december 31, 2006 and 2005, includes finance receivables of $56.5 billion and $44.7 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitizations that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. in addition, at december 31, 2006 and 2005, includes net investment in operating leases of $17.3 billion and $6.5 billion, respectively, that have been sold for legal purposes in securitizations that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. these underlying securitized assets are available only for payment of the debt or other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit other obligations or the claims of ford credit other creditors. managed receivables decreased from year-end 2005, primarily reflecting lower wholesale receivable levels, offset partially by increased net investment in operating leases. on-balance sheet receivable levels increased, primarily reflecting the impact of u.s. public retail transactions in 2006 being reported on-balance sheet. securitized off-balance sheet receivables declined for the same reason. 48 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table shows worldwide credit losses net of recoveries ( charge-offs ) for ford credit for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. the loss-to-receivables ratios, which equal charge-offs divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, are shown below for ford credit on-balance sheet and managed portfolios. 2006 over/(under) 2006 2005 2005 charge-offs (in millions) on-balance sheet retail installment and lease $ 465 $ 681 $ (216 ) wholesale 44 23 21 other 14 2 12 total on-balance sheet $ 523 $ 706 $ (183 ) reacquired receivables (retail)* $ 2 $ 22 $ (20 ) securitized off-balance sheet retail installment and lease $ 84 $ 127 $ (43 ) wholesale other total securitized off-balance sheet $ 84 $ 127 $ (43 ) managed retail installment and lease $ 551 $ 830 $ (279 ) wholesale 44 23 21 other 14 2 12 total managed $ 609 $ 855 $ (246 ) loss-to-receivables ratios on-balance sheet retail installment and lease 0.50 % 0.72 % (0.22 ) pts. wholesale 0.12 0.09 0.03 total including other 0.39 % 0.57 % (0.18 ) pts. managed retail installment and lease 0.51 % 0.73 % (0.22 ) pts. wholesale 0.12 0.06 0.06 total including other 0.41 % 0.54 % (0.13 ) pts. * reacquired receivables reflect the amount of receivables that resulted from the accounting consolidation of ford credit fcar owner trust retail securitization program ( fcar ) in the second quarter of 2003. charge-offs and loss-to-receivable ratios for ford credit on-balance sheet, securitized off-balance sheet, and managed portfolios declined from a year ago, primarily reflecting fewer repossessions. these improvements resulted from a higher quality retail installment and lease portfolio, and enhancements to ford credit collection practices. shown below is an analysis of ford credit allowance for credit losses and its allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end-of-period receivables (net finance receivables and net investment in operating leases) for its on-balance sheet portfolio for the years ended december 31 (dollar amounts in billions). during 2006, ford credit updated its analysis of contract liquidation data which affected the level of required reserves for credit losses. in addition, ford credit implemented refinements to certain modeling techniques that are used in determining the allowance for credit losses. 2006 2005 allowance for credit losses balance, beginning of year $ 1.6 $ 2.4 provision for credit losses 0.1 0.2 deductions charge-offs before recoveries 1.0 1.2 recoveries (0.5 ) (0.5 ) net charge-offs 0.5 0.7 other changes, principally amounts related to finance receivables sold and translation adjustments 0.1 0.3 net deductions 0.6 1.0 balance, end of year $ 1.1 $ 1.6 allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end-of-period net receivables 0.81 % 1.19 % 49 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease in ford credit allowance for credit losses primarily reflected improved charge-off performance, and changes in its assumptions and modeling techniques ($81 million) described above that affected the allowance. other financial services the improvement in results primarily reflected the non-recurrence of the 2005 write-off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of delta air lines, and, in 2006, higher property sales. 2005 compared with 2004 details of the full-year financial services sector income/(loss) before income taxes for 2005 and 2004 are shown below: income/(loss) before income taxes (in millions) 2005 over/(under) 2005 2004 2004 ford credit $ 2,923 $ 3,710 $ (787 ) other financial services (39 ) 84 (123 ) hertz operating results (a) 974 493 481 gain on sale of hertz (b) 1,095 1,095 total $ 4,953 $ 4,287 $ 666 (a) includes amortization expense related to intangibles recognized upon consolidation of hertz. (b) the segment presentation of the gain on sale of hertz in note 24 of the notes to the financial statements is $1,006 million in the hertz segment and $89 million in other financial services. ford credit ford credit income before income taxes was down $787 million, which includes $405 million for reduced market valuations primarily related to non-designated derivatives. the remaining decrease in earnings primarily reflected higher borrowing costs and the impact of lower retail receivable levels, offset partially by improved credit loss performance. hertz the increase in hertz operating results primarily reflected the cessation of depreciation on long-lived assets from the point hertz was held for sale (i.e., september 2005) until it was sold, higher car and equipment rental volumes and improved pricing for equipment rental. other financial services the decline in results primarily reflected the non-recurrence of a 2004 property clean-up settlement, and, in 2005, lower property sales and the write-off of aircraft leases related to the bankruptcy of delta air lines. 50 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our strategy is to ensure that we have sufficient funding available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle. the key elements of this strategy include maintaining large gross cash balances, generating cash from operating-related activities, having a long-dated debt maturity profile, maintaining committed credit facilities, and funding long-term liabilities over time. gross cash. automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable securities, loaned securities and certain assets contained in a voluntary employee beneficiary association trust ( veba ), a trust which may be used to pre-fund certain types of company-paid benefits for u.s. employees and retirees. we include in automotive gross cash those veba assets that are invested in shorter-duration fixed income investments and can be used within 18 months to pay for benefits ( short-term veba assets ). gross cash as of december 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 is detailed below (in billions): december 31, 2006 2005 2004 cash and cash equivalents $ 16.0 $ 13.4 $ 10.1 marketable securities 11.3 6.9 8.3 loaned securities 5.3 3.4 1.1 total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 32.6 23.7 19.5 securities-in-transit * (0.5 ) short-term veba assets 1.8 1.4 4.1 gross cash $ 33.9 $ 25.1 $ 23.6 * the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end. in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive gross cash into two categories: operating-related, and other (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, the net effect of the change in our veba on gross cash, capital transactions with the financial services sector, acquisitions and divestitures, dividends paid to shareholders, changes in automotive debt, and other primarily financing-related). our key metrics are operating-related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash, and automotive gross cash. we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below, which differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states ( gaap ), is useful to investors because it includes cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our operating activities (e.g., capital spending) that are not included in cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations , the most directly comparable gaap financial measure. 51 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) changes in automotive gross cash for the last three years are summarized below (in billions): 2006 2005 2004 gross cash at end of period $ 33.9 $ 25.1 $ 23.6 gross cash at beginning of period 25.1 23.6 25.9 total change in gross cash $ 8.8 $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) operating-related cash flows automotive income/(loss) before income taxes $ (17.0 ) $ (3.9 ) $ (0.2 ) special items 11.9 2.9 1.0 capital expenditures (6.8 ) (7.1 ) (6.3 ) depreciation and special tools amortization 7.1 6.9 6.4 changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (a) (2.0 ) 1.3 (1.1 ) other (b) 1.2 (1.4 ) 1.4 total operating-related cash flows (5.6 ) (1.3 ) 1.2 other changes in cash cash impact of personnel-reduction programs and jobs bank benefits accrual (1.2 ) (0.4 ) contributions to funded pension plans (0.8 ) (2.5 ) (2.2 ) net effect of veba on gross cash 3.4 (0.2 ) (2.8 ) capital transactions with financial services sector (c) 1.4 2.3 4.2 acquisitions and divestitures 0.2 5.3 0.4 dividends paid to shareholders (0.5 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) net proceeds from/(payments on) automotive sector debt 11.7 (0.5 ) (2.4 ) other (d) 0.2 (0.5 ) total change in gross cash $ 8.8 $ 1.5 $ (2.3 ) (a) in 2006, working capital changes reflected the impact of lower production volumes on accounts payable, the effect on inventory of several new product launches at year end, and changes in our value-added tax receivables collection process in europe. (b) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, marketing, and warranty. (c) primarily dividends received from ford credit, excluding proceeds from financial services sector divestitures paid to the automotive sector. beginning in 2007, ford credit will suspend its regular dividend payments. (d) in 2006, primarily proceeds from tax refunds (an inflow of about $300 million), the net issuance of ford common stock under employee savings plans (an inflow of about $200 million), and dividends to minority shareholders of consolidated subsidiaries (an outflow of about $200 million). shown in the table below is a reconciliation between financial statement cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2006 2005 2004 cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations $ (4.2 ) $ 5.4 $ 7.0 items included in operating-related cash flows capital expenditures (6.8 ) (7.1 ) (6.3 ) net transactions between automotive and financial services sectors* (0.5 ) (0.4 ) 1.3 items not included in operating-related cash flows cash impact of jobs bank benefits and separation programs 1.2 0.4 net (sales)/purchases of trading securities 6.8 0.6 (5.6 ) pension contributions 0.8 2.5 2.2 veba cash flows (net reimbursement for benefits paid)/contributions to veba (2.9 ) (2.8 ) 2.8 other 0.1 (0.2 ) operating-related cash flows $ (5.6 ) $ (1.3 ) $ 1.2 * primarily payables and receivables between the sectors in the normal course of business. debt and net cash. at december 31, 2006, our automotive sector had total debt of $30 billion, compared with $17.9 billion a year ago. the increase in debt primarily reflected $4.95 billion of unsecured convertible debt and $7 billion of secured bank financing that we completed in december 2006. for more information on the nearly $12 billion of new financing, see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. at december 31, 2006, our automotive sector had net cash (defined as gross cash less total debt) of $3.9 billion, compared with $7.2 billion at the end of 2005. 52 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the weighted-average maturity of our total automotive debt is approximately 17 years, and is measured based on the maturity dates of our debt or the first date of any put option available to the owners of our debt. about $3 billion of debt matures by december 31, 2011, and about $15 billion matures or has a put option by december 31, 2016. for additional information on debt, see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. credit facilities. at december 31, 2006, we had $13 billion of contractually-committed credit facilities with financial institutions, including $11.5 billion pursuant to a senior secured credit facility established in december 2006, $1.1 billion of global automotive unsecured credit facilities, and $400 million of local credit facilities available to foreign affiliates. at december 31, 2006, $12.5 billion of these facilities were available for use. for further discussion of our committed credit facilities, see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. this new secured credit facility, together with the $12 billion of funds raised in december 2006 discussed above, was obtained primarily to fund the cash outflows discussed below. during the period 2007 through 2009, we expect cumulative automotive operating-related cash outflows of about $10 billion, and cumulative cash expenditures for restructuring actions of about $7 billion. more than half of this $17 billion cash outflow is expected to occur in 2007. this cash outflow primarily reflects substantial operating losses in our automotive sector through 2008, and cash expenditures incurred in connection with personnel separations. it also reflects our expectation to continue to invest in new products throughout this period at about the same level as we have during the past few years, or approximately $7 billion annually. in the period 2007 through 2009, we expect other non-operating related net automotive cash inflows of about $2 billion, reflecting the use of about $3 billion in long-term veba assets, proceeds from receipt of government tax refunds and affiliate tax payments, and proceeds from planned divestitures of automobile protection corporation and all or part of aston martin, offset partially by pension contributions and reductions of other automotive debt. pension plan contributions. our policy for funded plans is to contribute annually, at a minimum, amounts required by applicable laws, regulations, and union agreements. we do from time to time make contributions beyond those legally required. in 2006, we made $800 million of cash contributions to our funded pension plans. during 2007, we expect to contribute from available automotive cash and cash equivalents $2.2 billion to our worldwide pension plans, including about $400 million of benefit payments paid directly by us for unfunded plans. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. pension plans in 2007. for a further discussion of our pension plans, see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements. financial services sector ford credit ford credit funding strategy is to maintain a high level of liquidity by having a substantial cash balance and committed funding capacity, allowing it to meet its short-term funding obligations. as a result of lower credit ratings, its unsecured funding costs have increased over time. while ford credit continues to access the unsecured debt market, it has increased its use of securitization funding as it is presently more cost effective than unsecured funding and allows it access to a broad investor base. ford credit plans to meet a significant portion of its 2007 funding requirements through securitizations, and will continue to expand and diversify its asset-backed funding by asset class and region. in addition, ford credit has various alternative business arrangements for select products and markets that reduce its funding requirements while allowing it to support us. ford credit will continue to pursue such arrangements in the future. over time, ford credit may need to reduce further the amount of receivables and operating leases it purchases and originates. a significant reduction in ford credit managed receivables would reduce its ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of our vehicles. debt and cash. ford credit total debt plus securitized off-balance sheet funding was $150.9 billion at december 31, 2006, about $900 million higher compared with a year ago. at december 31, 2006, ford credit cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) totaled $21.8 billion (including $3.7 billion to be used only to support on-balance sheet securitizations), compared with $17.9 billion at year-end 2005. in the normal course of its funding activities, ford credit may generate more proceeds 53 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) than are necessary for its immediate funding needs. these excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for ford credit short-term funding needs and give ford credit flexibility in the use of its other funding programs. funding. ford credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. its funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of ford products, which are influenced by ford-sponsored special financing programs that are available exclusively through ford credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. ford credit funding sources include primarily securitizations and unsecured debt. ford credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. during 2006, ford credit continued to meet a significant portion of its funding requirements through securitizations because of their lower relative costs given its credit ratings (as described below), the stability of the market for asset-backed securities, and the diversity of funding sources that they provide. securitized funding (both on- and off-balance sheet, net of retained interests) as a percent of total managed receivables was as follows at the end of each of the last three years: 2006 48%, 2005 38%, 2004 26%. ford credit obtains short-term funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program. at december 31, 2006, the principal amount outstanding of such notes was $5.6 billion. in addition, ford credit issues unsecured commercial paper in the united states, europe and other international markets, with sales mostly to qualified institutional investors. ford credit does not hold reserves specifically to fund the payment of any of its short-term funding obligations. instead, ford credit maintains multiple sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and uncommitted credit facilities, which ford credit believes should be sufficient for its short-term funding obligations. the following table illustrates ford credit public and private term funding transactions for 2005 and 2006 and its planned issuances for 2007 (in billions): 2007 forecast 2006 2005 public term funding transactions unsecured $ 3 - 5 $ 9 $ 9 securitizations 7 - 15 14 12 total public term funding transactions $ 10 - 20 $ 23 $ 21 private term funding transactions * $ 25 - 35 $ 29 $ 18 * includes securitizations, term debt, and whole-loan sales; excludes ford credit on-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper programs and proceeds from revolving transactions. the cost of securitizations and unsecured debt funding is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate. spreads are typically measured in basis points. ford credit asset-backed funding and unsecured long-term debt costs are based on spreads over u.s. treasury securities of similar maturities, a comparable london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or other comparable benchmark rates. ford credit unsecured commercial paper and floating rate demand notes funding costs are based on spreads over libor. ford credit securitized funding spreads (which are based on the creditworthiness of the underlying securitized asset and enhancements) have not been volatile, while its unsecured long-term spreads have been volatile over the last three years. during 2006, ford credit spreads on the fixed rate notes offered in its u.s. public retail securitizations ranged between six and eleven basis points over the relevant benchmark rates, while its unsecured long-term debt funding spreads as measured by the five-year credit default swap market have fluctuated between 270 and 585 basis points above libor. 54 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit facilities and committed liquidity programs . for additional funding and to maintain liquidity, at december 31, 2006 ford credit and its majority-owned subsidiaries, including fce, had $3.8 billion of contractually-committed unsecured credit facilities with financial institutions, of which $2.6 billion were available for use. in addition, at december 31, 2006, banks provided $18.9 billion of contractually-committed liquidity facilities exclusively to support ford credit two on-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper programs. ford credit also has entered into agreements with a number of bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper conduits ( conduits ) and other financial institutions pursuant to which such parties are contractually committed, at ford credit option, to purchase from ford credit eligible retail or wholesale assets or to make advances under asset-backed securities backed by wholesale assets for proceeds of up to approximately $29.1 billion. at december 31, 2006, $9.7 billion of these commitments were in use. in addition, ford credit has a multi-year committed liquidity program for the purchase of up to $6 billion of unrated asset-backed securities that at its option can be supported with various retail, wholesale, or leased assets. ford credit ability to obtain funding under this program is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets available to issue the securities. for further discussion of these facilities and programs, see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including establishing pricing for retail, wholesale, and lease financing, and assessing our capital structure. ford credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: financial statement leverage = total debt equity total debt securitized off-balance sheet receivables - retained interest in securitized off-balance sheet receivables - cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities * - fair value hedge accounting adjustments on total debt managed leverage = equity minority interest - fair value hedge accounting adjustments on equity * excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities. the following table illustrates the calculation of ford credit financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2006 2005 2004 total debt $ 139.7 $ 133.4 $ 142.4 total stockholder equity 11.8 11.4 12.8 debt-to-equity ratio (to 1) 11.9 11.7 11.1 the following table illustrates the calculation of ford credit managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2006 2005 2004 total debt $ 139.7 $ 133.4 $ 142.4 securitized off-balance sheet receivables outstanding (a) 12.2 18.0 37.7 retained interest in securitized off-balance sheet receivables (b) (1.0 ) (1.4 ) (9.5 ) adjustments for cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (c) (21.8 ) (17.9 ) (12.7 ) fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.1 ) (0.5 ) (1.3 ) total adjusted debt $ 129.0 $ 131.6 $ 156.6 total stockholder equity (including minority interest) $ 11.8 $ 11.4 $ 12.8 fair value hedge accounting adjustments (0.5 ) (0.7 ) (1.3 ) total adjusted equity $ 11.3 $ 10.7 $ 11.5 managed debt-to-equity ratio (to 1) 11.4 12.3 13.6 (a) includes securitized funding from discontinued operations in 2004. (b) includes retained interest in securitized receivables from discontinued operations in 2004. (c) excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities. 55 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. accordingly, ford credit evaluates charge-offs, receivables and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. ford credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support its on-balance sheet securitizations. in addition, ford credit adds its minority interests to its financial statement equity because all of the debt of such consolidated entities is included in its total debt. ford credit makes fair value hedge accounting adjustments to its assets, debt and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitizations. the fair value hedge accounting adjustments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of the fair value hedge accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. accordingly, the managed leverage measure provides ford credit investors with meaningful information regarding management decision-making processes. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2006, ford credit managed leverage was 11.4 to 1, compared with 12.3 to 1 a year ago. in 2006, ford credit paid cash dividends of $1.35 billion. to further enhance future funding flexibility, ford credit has suspended regular dividend payments beginning in 2007. correspondingly, ford credit expects a continued reduction in its managed leverage. total company stockholders equity. our stockholders equity was negative $3.5 billion at december 31, 2006, down $16.9 billion compared with december 31, 2005. the decrease primarily reflected 2006 net losses and recognition of previously unamortized changes in the funded status of our defined benefit postretirement plans (such as assumption changes and benefit plan changes) as required by the implementation of statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 158, offset partially by foreign currency translation adjustments. for additional discussion of sfas no. 158 and its impact on our financial position, see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements. for additional discussion of foreign currency translation adjustments, see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements. credit ratings our short- and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) by the sec: dominion bond rating service limited ( dbrs ); fitch, inc. ( fitch ); moody investors service, inc. ( moody ); and standard poor rating services, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies, inc. ( p ). in several markets, locally recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. their ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. the nrsros have indicated that our lower ratings are primarily a reflection of the rating agencies concerns regarding our automotive cash flow and profitability, declining market share, excess industry capacity, industry pricing pressure and rising health care costs. 56 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following ratings actions were taken in the fourth quarter 2006: ford dbrs: in november 2006, dbrs assigned ford an issuer rating of b (low), lowered ford long-term senior unsecured rating to ccc (high) from b, rated ford senior secured credit facilities at b (high), and maintained the trend at negative. fitch: in november 2006, fitch lowered ford long-term senior unsecured rating to b from b , rated ford senior secured credit facilities at bb and maintained the outlook at negative. in december 2006, fitch lowered ford long-term senior unsecured rating to b- from b and maintained the outlook at negative. ford issuer default rating of b was unaffected. moody s: in november 2006, moody affirmed ford corporate rating at b3, lowered ford long-term senior unsecured rating to caa1 from b3, rated ford senior secured credit facilities at ba3, and maintained the outlook at negative. p: in november 2006, p affirmed ford issuer credit rating at b, lowered ford long-term senior unsecured rating to ccc from b, rated ford senior secured credit facilities at b, and maintained the outlook at negative. ford credit dbrs: in november 2006, dbrs lowered ford credit long-term senior unsecured rating to b from b (high), maintained the short-term rating at r-4, and maintained the trend at negative. p, moody and fitch: no ratings actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2006. the following summarizes certain of the credit ratings and the outlook presently assigned to ford and ford credit by these four nrsros: ford ford credit issuer default/ long-term long-term corporate/ issuer senior senior outlook / senior short-term outlook / rating unsecured secured trend unsecured unsecured trend dbrs b (low) ccc (high) b (high) negative b r-4 negative fitch b b- bb negative bb- b negative moody b3 caa1 ba3 negative b1 np negative p b ccc b negative b* b-3 negative * p rates fce long-term senior unsecured rating as b , maintaining a one notch differential versus ford credit. outlook our current projection of first quarter 2007 production for certain segments is as follows (in thousands): first quarter 2007 vehicle unit over/(under) production 2006 ford north america 740 (136 ) ford europe 520 29 pag 210 15 we have set and communicated the following 2007 planning assumptions and operational metrics: planning assumptions industry volume (saar incl. heavy trucks): -u.s. (million units) 16.8 -europe (million units) 17.6 u.s. industry net pricing lower 57 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) o perational metrics quality improved market share -u.s. lower -other regions higher automotive cost * lower cash flow negative capital spending (in billions) about $7 * at constant volume, mix and exchange; excluding special items. as indicated in the table above, we anticipate that quality will continue to improve in 2007. we anticipate that u.s. market share will be lower as we reduce fleet sales, though new product introductions should increase market share in most other regions. we plan to continue to reduce automotive costs during 2007, and we remain on track to deliver about $5 billion of cost reductions in north america by the end of 2008 as compared with 2005. we anticipate that commodity and regulatory costs will continue to increase in 2007; that advertising and sales promotions costs will remain essentially flat; and that other product costs, manufacturing and engineering, pension and opeb, depreciation and amortization, warranty and overhead costs should decrease. as previously disclosed, we anticipate that, from 2007 through 2009, cumulative automotive operating-related cash outflows will be about $10 billion, and cumulative restructuring expenditures about $7 billion. we expect more than half of this $17 billion in outflow to occur during 2007. these outflows also reflect plans to invest in new products at levels comparable to previous years, or about $7 billion annually. during the same period, from 2007 through 2009, we also anticipate other non-operating related net automotive cash inflows of about $2 billion. for additional discussion of projected automotive cash flows, see liquidity and capital resources - automotive sector above. as previously disclosed, we expect that market share and most earnings comparisons will remain challenging through the first three quarters of 2007. we expect that production levels will be down in the first half of 2007, before increasing on a year-over-year basis during the second half of the year. the decline in the first half of the year primarily reflects cessation of production of the ford taurus and ford freestar (in the fourth quarter of 2006) resulting in lower fleet and total share, as well as lower truck production. year-over-year third-quarter earnings comparisons will be impacted by the non-recurrence of tax-related interest income we received in 2006. in addition, essentially no tax offsets to losses will be recognized during 2007, which will negatively impact comparisons for the first nine months of 2007. however, we do anticipate that special items in 2007 will be significantly lower than in 2006, with special items likely in the range of $1 billion to $2 billion excluding any gains or losses from the sale of any operations, and that our structural-related cost reductions will improve during the year as personnel are separated, plants are idled, and capacity is reduced. by segment or business unit for full-year 2007, we anticipate that ford north america will improve its results, though still incur a substantial loss. we anticipate that pag will be profitable, and we expect continued profits from ford south america, ford europe, and mazda and associated operations. we expect that ford asia pacific and africa will report a full-year loss, primarily due to adverse segmentation in australia and lower industry volumes in taiwan. net interest expense will be substantially higher in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily reflecting the impact of the new debt raised at the end of 2006, as well as the absence of tax-related interest income. in 2007, we expect total automotive results including special items, though still a loss, to be substantially improved from 2006. we expect ford credit 2007 pre-tax profits to be substantially lower than 2006 due to higher borrowing costs, the non-recurrence of credit loss reserve reductions in the amounts experienced in 2006, the costs associated with its north america restructuring initiative (as described in item 1. business financial services sector ), and the impact of lower receivable levels. beginning with 2007, ford credit will suspend regular dividends. we expect year-end managed receivables to be in the range of $140 billion to $145 billion. we currently expect our overall results including special items, though still a net loss, to be substantially improved from 2006. 58 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: continued decline in market share; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations or other factors; a market shift (or an increase in or acceleration of market shift) away from sales of trucks or sport utility vehicles, or from sales of other more profitable vehicles in the united states; a significant decline in industry sales, particularly in the united states or europe, resulting from slowing economic growth, geo-political events or other factors; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; continued or increased high prices for or reduced availability of fuel; currency or commodity price fluctuations; adverse effects from the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor; economic distress of suppliers that has in the past and may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials; labor or other constraints on our ability to restructure our business; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of supplies; single-source supply of components or materials; substantial pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates, investment returns, and health care cost trends); the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions (e.g., co 2 ), fuel economy or other (e.g., pension funding) regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation or governmental investigations arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise; a change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have entered into long-term supply arrangements that commit us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts or materials, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ( take-or-pay contracts); adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events; substantial negative automotive operating-related cash flows for the near- to medium-term affecting our ability to meet our obligations, invest in our business or refinance our debt; substantial levels of automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations (which may grow because we are able to incur substantially more debt, including additional secured debt); inability of ford credit to access debt or securitization markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to additional credit rating downgrades or otherwise; higher-than-expected credit losses; increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; changes in interest rates; collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; and new or increased credit, consumer or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast or assumption made by management in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. for additional discussion of these risks, see item 1a. risk factors. 59 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and additional service actions nature of estimates required. the estimated warranty and additional service action costs are accrued for each vehicle at the time of sale. estimates are principally based on assumptions regarding the lifetime warranty costs of each vehicle line and each model year of that vehicle line, where little or no claims experience may exist. in addition, the number and magnitude of additional service actions expected to be approved, and policies related to additional service actions, are taken into consideration. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these estimated factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect net income. assumptions and approach used. our estimate of warranty and additional service action obligations is re-evaluated on a quarterly basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year can be volatile; therefore, our process relies upon long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, it is used to modify the historical averages to ensure that the forecast is within the range of likely outcomes. resulting accruals are then compared with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. see note 27 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for warranties and additional service actions. pensions nature of estimates required. the estimation of our pension obligations, costs and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. these assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. expected return on plan assets. the expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical plan returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. assumptions are not changed unless structural trends in the underlying economy are identified, our asset strategy changes, or there are significant changes in other inputs. salary growth. the salary growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, outlook and assumed inflation. 60 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators. expected contributions. the expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) penalty premiums, u.k. pension protection fund levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates . mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. amounts are recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 11 years for the major u.s. plans). in 2006, the u.s. actual return on assets was 14%, which exceeded the expected return of 8.5%. the year-end 2006 weighted average discount rates for the u.s. and non-u.s. plans increased by 25 and 33 basis points, respectively. these differences resulted in an unamortized gain of about $5 billion. these gains are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value of assets or the projected benefit obligation of the respective plan. for the major u.s. plans, the gains do not exceed this threshold and recognition will begin at a future measurement date. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2006 pension funded status and 2007 expense are affected by december 31, 2006 assumptions. note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. they also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. the effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected factors is shown below (in millions): increase/(decrease) in: december 31, 2006 percentage u.s. plans non-u.s. plans total plans 2007 expense point funded status funded status funded status assumption change and equity and equity and equity u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate /- 1.0 pt. $4,690/$(5,230) $4,630/$(5,440) $9,320/$(10,670) $10/$290 $(380)/$460 actual return on assets /- 1.0 400/(400) 240/(240) 640/(640) (10)/10 (10)/10 expected return on assets /- 1.0 (410)/410 (240)/240 the foregoing indicates that changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders equity and expense. we cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate whether adjustments to our stockholders equity in subsequent years will be significant. other postretirement employee benefits (retiree health care and life insurance) nature of estimates required. the estimation of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with other postretirement employee benefits ( opeb ) (i.e., retiree health care and life insurance) requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases, salary increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. 61 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. health care cost trends. our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, anticipated efficiencies and other cost-mitigation actions (including eligibility management, employee education and wellness, competitive sourcing and appropriate employee cost sharing) and an assessment of likely long-term trends. expected return on plan assets. the expected return on plan assets assumption reflects external investment managers expectations of likely returns on short-duration veba assets over the next several years. salary growth. the salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual experience, outlook and assumed inflation. expected veba contributions/drawdowns. the expected amount and timing of contributions/drawdowns is based on an assessment of hourly retiree benefit payments to be reimbursed, tax efficiency, and cash availability. retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. in 2006, the u.s. actual health care trend was 5%, which was less than the expected trend of 7%. the year-end 2006 weighted average discount rate for the u.s. increased by 25 basis points. these differences, as well as updates for employee separation programs, resulted in an unamortized gain of about $3 billion. this amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 11 years). see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2006 opeb funded status and 2007 expense are affected by december 31, 2006 assumptions. note that these sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. they are not additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. the effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in selected assumptions is shown below (in millions): effect on u.s. and canadian plans: increase/(decrease) percentage december 31, 2006 point funded status assumption change and equity 2007 expense discount rate /- 1.0 pt. $ 3,830/$(4,580 ) $ (340)/$390 health care cost trend rates total expense /- 1.0 (4,580)/3,640 680/(540) health care cost trend rates service and interest expense /- 1.0 (4,580)/3,640 340/(270) 62 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) allowance for credit losses financial services sector the allowance for credit losses is ford credit estimate of the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases as of the date of the financial statements. consistent with its normal practices and policies, ford credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the credit losses related to impaired finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors including historical credit loss trends (including loss history and key physical trends, such as delinquency and repossessions), the composition and credit quality of its present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation and new/used), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values and general economic measures. assumptions used. ford credit makes projections of two key assumptions: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amounts a customer owes ford credit when they charge off the finance contract and the amount ford credit receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. ford credit uses these assumptions to assist in setting its allowance for credit losses. see note 6 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles in the united states (in millions): increase/(decrease) percentage december 31, 2006 point allowance for 2006 assumption change credit losses expense repossession rates * /- 0.1 pt. $30/$(30 ) $30/$(30 ) loss severity /- 1.0 5/(5) 5/(5) * reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. changes in our assumptions affect the provision for credit and insurance losses on our statement of income and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables , net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet. accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. these vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for ford credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ( rental repurchase vehicles ) for the automotive sector. we monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded on a straight-line basis. 63 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) for retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. if the customer returns the vehicle to the dealer, the dealer may buy the vehicle from us or return it to us. over the last three years, between 230,000 and 310,000 units of ford credit north america operating lease vehicles have been returned to us per year. for rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles are returned to us. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in our portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a customer. at the time we purchase a lease, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. we estimate the expected residual value by evaluating historical auction values, historical return volumes for our leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, our marketing plans and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. for retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: auction value . the market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and return volume. the number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease end. see note 5 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. at december 31, 2006, if future auction values for ford credit existing portfolio of operating leases on ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles in the u.s. were to decrease by one percent from its present estimates, the effect would be to increase the depreciation on these vehicles by about $50 million. similarly, if return volumes for ford credit existing portfolio of operating leases on ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles in the u.s. were to increase by one percentage point from its present estimates, the effect would be to increase the depreciation on these vehicles by about $10 million. these increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2007 through 2010 period so that the net investment in operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in depreciation, in each case under the financial services sector. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted in february 2006, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued sfas no. 155, accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments an amendment of fasb statements no. 133 and 140 ( sfas no. 155 ) . this standard permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. the standard requires that interests in securitized financial assets be evaluated to identify whether they are freestanding derivatives or hybrid financial instruments containing an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation. sfas no. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued by us after january 1, 2007. we expect the impact on our financial condition or results of operations to be immaterial. in march 2006, fasb issued sfas no. 156, accounting for servicing of financial assets an amendment to fasb statement no. 140 ( sfas no. 156 ), which provides revised guidance on when a servicing asset and servicing liability should be recognized and requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. the standard also requires separate presentation of servicing assets and servicing liabilities subsequently measured at fair value in the statement of financial position and additional footnote disclosures. sfas no. 156 is effective for us as of january 1, 2007. we expect the impact on our financial condition or results of operations to be immaterial. in june 2006, fasb issued interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes - an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 ( fin 48 ). this interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement reporting of tax positions taken in tax returns. the interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2006. we are adopting the interpretation as of january 1, 2007 and we expect a $1 billion to $1.5 billion increase to equity as a result of this adoption. the favorable impact to equity is the result of recognizing 64 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) refund claims and related interest for prior years that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold of fin 48. these prior-year refund claims and related interest were not recognized as of december 31, 2006 because they were considered gain contingencies under sfas no. 5, accounting for contingencies and could not be recognized until the contingency lapsed. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, fair value measurements ( sfas no. 157 ) . this standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in gaap, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 does not introduce new requirements for when fair value measures must be used, but focuses on how to measure fair value. sfas no. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy to classify the sources of information used to measure fair value. sfas no. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. we are assessing the potential impact on present fair value measurement techniques, disclosures, and on our financial position. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) . this standard requires employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur, through comprehensive income. for further discussion of the impact of the adoption of this standard on our financial condition, see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements. the measurement date for substantially all of our worldwide postretirement benefit plans is december 31. the potential impact on our financial condition for those plans in which we have not adopted the requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligation as of the date of our present statement of financial position is minimal. this requirement is not effective until december 2008. off-balance sheet arrangements we have entered into various arrangements not reflected on our balance sheet that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. these include securitizations by ford credit in off-balance sheet transactions, variable interest entities ( vies ) and guarantees. for a discussion of our vies and guarantees, see notes 13 and 27, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. securitizations by ford credit securitization. ford credit securitizes retail installment sale contracts, wholesale receivables, and net investment in operating leases through a variety of programs, utilizing amortizing, variable funding and revolving structures. most of ford credit securitizations do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment and the securitized assets and associated debt remain on ford credit balance sheet. some of ford credit securitizations, however, do satisfy accounting sale treatment and are not reflected on its balance sheet in the same way as debt funding, but could have an effect on its financial condition, operating results and liquidity. in a securitization transaction, the securitized assets are generally held by a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity ( spe ) in order to isolate the securitized assets from the claims of ford credit creditors and to insure that the cash flows on the securitized assets are available for the benefit of securitization investors. as a result, payments to securitization investors are based on the creditworthiness of the securitized assets and any enhancements, and not on ford credit creditworthiness. senior asset-backed securities issued by the spes generally receive the highest short-term credit ratings and among the highest long-term credit ratings from the rating agencies that rate them, and are sold to securitization investors at cost-effective pricing. in order to be eligible for inclusion in a securitization transaction, each asset must satisfy certain eligibility criteria designed for the specific transaction. for example, for securitizations of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria may be based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, the type of financed vehicle, and whether the contracts are active and in good standing. ford credit selects the assets to be included in a particular securitization randomly from its entire portfolio of assets that satisfy the applicable eligibility criteria. specific assets are generally not identified until the month in which the securitization occurs. 65 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) securitization spes have limited purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase the securitized assets, issue the asset-backed securities and make payments on the securities. some spes, such as the trusts that issue securities backed by retail installment sale contracts, only issue a single series of securities and generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in full. other spes, such as the trusts that issue securities backed by wholesale receivables, issue multiple series of securities from time to time and are not dissolved until the last series of securities is paid in full. ford credit use of spes in its securitizations is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. ford credit sponsors the spes used in all of its securitization programs with the exception of bank-sponsored conduits. none of ford credit officers, directors or employees holds any equity interests in its spes or receives any direct or indirect compensation from the spes. these spes do not own ford credit stock or stock of any of its affiliates. ford credit retains interests in its securitization transactions, including senior and subordinated securities issued by the spe, rights to restricted cash held for the benefit of the securitization investors (for example, a reserve fund) and residual interests. residual interests represent the right to receive collections on the securitized assets in excess of amounts needed to pay securitization investors and to pay other transaction participants and expenses. ford credit ability to realize the carrying amount of its retained interests depends on the performance of the securitized assets, including factors such as the actual credit losses and the prepayment speeds or payment rates of such assets. ford credit retains credit risk in securitizations because its retained interests include the most subordinated interests in the securitized assets, which are the first to absorb credit losses on the securitized assets. based on past experience, ford credit expects that any credit losses in the pool of securitized assets would likely be limited to its retained interests. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the total outstanding principal amount of receivables sold by ford credit in off-balance sheet securitizations was $12.2 billion and $18 billion, respectively. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, ford credit retained interests in such sold receivables were $990 million and $1.4 billion, respectively. ford credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any securitized asset that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. securitization investors have no recourse to ford credit or its other assets for credit losses on the securitized assets and have no right to require ford credit to repurchase their investments. ford credit does not guarantee any asset-backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional assets to its spes either due to the performance of the securitized assets or the credit rating of its short-term or long-term debt. however, as the seller and servicer of the securitized assets, ford credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitizations, which are customary in the securitization industry. these obligations consist of indemnifications, repurchase obligations on assets that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional assets in revolving transactions and, in some cases, servicer advances of interest shortfalls or other amounts. risks to continued funding under securitization programs. the following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent ford credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: fcar. if the credit enhancement on any asset-backed security held by fcar is reduced to zero, fcar may not purchase any additional asset-backed securities and would wind down its operations. in addition, if credit losses or delinquencies in ford credit portfolio of retail, wholesale or lease assets exceed specified levels, fcar is not permitted to purchase additional asset-backed securities of the affected type for so long as such levels are exceeded. retail conduits. if credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of assets held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of over-collateralization for such pool decreases below a specified level, ford credit would not have the right to sell additional pools of assets to that conduit. wholesale securitization (including motown notes). if the payment rates on wholesale receivables are lower than specified levels, or if there are significant dealer defaults, ford credit would be unable to obtain additional funding and any existing funding would begin to amortize. based on its experience, ford credit does not expect that any of these features will have a material adverse impact on its ability to use securitization to fund its operations. 66 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition to the specific transaction-related structural features discussed above, ford credit securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: the amount and credit quality of assets available to securitize, the performance of assets in its previous securitizations, general demand for the type of assets supporting the asset-backed securities, market capacity for ford credit and ford credit-sponsored investments, accounting and regulatory changes, ford credit credit ratings, and the availability of liquidity facilities. if, as a result of any of these or other factors, the cost of securitization funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitizations were no longer available to ford credit, it would have a material adverse impact on ford credit financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. we enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. purchase obligations are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2006 (in millions): payments due by period financial 2008- 2010- 2012 and automotive services total 2007 2009 2011 thereafter on-balance sheet long-term debt* (excluding capital leases) $ 28,938 $ 115,859 $ 144,797 $ 35,523 $ 46,689 $ 23,759 $ 38,826 interest payments relating to long-term debt 36,505 22,586 59,091 8,418 12,019 7,765 30,889 capital leases 372 372 53 129 118 72 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 4,225 140 4,365 1,589 2,332 311 133 operating lease 1,660 494 2,154 607 830 392 325 total $ 71,700 $ 139,079 $ 210,779 $ 46,190 $ 61,999 $ 32,345 $ 70,245 * amount includes $796 million for the current portion of long-term debt. see note 15 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion. for additional information regarding long-term debt, operating lease obligations, and pension and opeb obligations, see notes 15, 27 and 23, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 67 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ( grmc ). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. we maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through a combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer office and is governed by written polices and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are reviewed by the grmc, and the audit and finance committees of our board of directors. in accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). derivative positions are used to manage underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 22 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. 68 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( continued ) foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. accordingly, we use derivative instruments to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward contracts and options). the net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to cash flow foreign currency risk was an asset of $705 million as of december 31, 2006 compared to a net fair value liability of $421 million as of december 31, 2005. the increase in fair value primarily reflects mark-to-market adjustments resulting from the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, the british pound and the swedish krona. the potential decrease in fair value for such financial instruments, assuming a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates, would be $2.1 billion and $1.6 billion at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility of higher or lower costs due to changes in the prices of commodities, such as non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene), which we use in the production of motor vehicles. steel and resins are our two largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. we use derivative instruments to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals, precious metals and energies). in our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). the net fair value asset of commodity forward and option contracts as of december 31, 2006 and 2005 was $750 million and $664 million, respectively. the potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts, assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be about $200 million at both december 31, 2006 and 2005. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolio due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolio includes cash and cash equivalents, net marketable and loaned securities and veba assets. at december 31, 2006, we had $37.5 billion (including total veba assets of $4.9 billion) in our automotive investment portfolio, compared to $25.1 billion at december 31, 2005. we invest the portfolio in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. these securities are generally classified as either trading or available-for-sale. the trading portfolio gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the income statement. the available-for-sale portfolio realized gains or losses are reported in the income statement, and unrealized gains and losses are reported in the consolidated statement of stockholders equity in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) . the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investment. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our trading and available-for-sale portfolios. as of december 31, 2006, the value of our trading portfolio was $36.6 billion, which is $14 billion higher than december 31, 2005. the value of our available-for-sale portfolio was about $900 million, which is $1.6 billion lower than december 31, 2005. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our trading and available-for-sale portfolios would be reduced by $121 million and $12 million, respectively. this compares to $91 million and $28 million, respectively, as calculated as of december 31, 2005. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantaneous or parallel. 69 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( continued ) counterparty risk. the use of derivatives to manage market risk results in counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if counterparty defaulted on a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. we establish exposure limits for both net fair value and future potential exposure, based on our overall risk tolerance and ratings-based historical default probabilities. the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties and for longer-dated exposures. we use a monte carlo simulation technique to assess our potential exposure by tenor, defined at a 95% confidence level. we monitor and report our exposures to the treasurer on a periodic basis. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single-a or better. our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings is bbb-. for additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to note 22 of the notes to the financial statements. ford credit market risks overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk. the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect ford credit cash flow and economic value; credit risk. the possibility of loss from a customer failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk. the possibility that the actual proceeds ford credit receives at lease termination will be lower than its projections or return rates will be higher than its projections; and, liquidity risk. the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and products are priced consistent with these risks. credit and residual risks are discussed above in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates and liquidity risk is discussed above in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources . a discussion of ford credit market risks is included below. foreign currency risk. to meet funding objectives, ford credit issues debt or, for its international affiliates, draws on local credit lines in a variety of currencies. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rate changes if a mismatch exists between the currency of its receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit seeks to minimize its exposure to changes in currency exchange rates by executing foreign currency derivatives. these derivatives convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables. as a result, ford credit market risk exposure relating to currency exchange rates is believed to be immaterial. 70 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( continued ) interest rate risk. interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which ford credit is exposed and consists principally of re-pricing risk or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. an instrument re-pricing period is a term used by financial institutions to describe how an interest rate-sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. it refers to the time it takes an instrument interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates. for fixed-rate instruments, the re-pricing period is equal to the maturity for repayment of the instrument principal because, with a fixed interest rate, the principal is considered to re-price only when re-invested in a new instrument. for a floating-rate instrument, the re-pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. for instance, a floating-rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on december 31 would have a re-pricing period of one year on january 1, regardless of the instrument maturity. ford credit receivables consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. ford credit funding sources consist primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured debt. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout the business cycle, ford credit may issue debt with five- to ten-year maturities, which is generally longer than the terms of its assets. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re-pricing profile of its assets and debt. specifically, without derivatives, ford credit assets would re-price more quickly than its debt. ford credit interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its economic value while limiting the impact of changes in interest rates. ford credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance and staying within this tolerance through the following risk management process: ford credit determines the sensitivity of the economic value of its portfolio of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities (its economic value) to hypothetical changes in interest rates. economic value is a measure of the present value of all future expected cash flows, discounted by market interest rates, and is equal to the present value of interest rate-sensitive assets minus the present value of interest rate-sensitive liabilities. ford credit then enters into interest rate swaps, to economically convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or its fixed-rate debt to floating, to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established tolerance. ford credit also monitors its pre-tax cash flow sensitivity over a twelve-month horizon using simulation techniques. this simulation determines the sensitivity of cash flows associated with the re-pricing characteristics of interest rate-sensitive assets, liabilities and derivatives under various hypothetical interest rate scenarios including both parallel and non-parallel shifts in the yield curve. this sensitivity calculation does not take into account any future actions ford credit may take to reduce the risk profile that arises from a change in interest rates. these quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to our treasurer regularly (either monthly or quarterly dependent on the market). the process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of ford credit operations in the united states, canada and the united kingdom, which together represented approximately 79% of its total on-balance sheet finance receivables at december 31, 2006. for its other international affiliates, ford credit uses a technique commonly referred to as gap analysis, to measure re-pricing mismatch. this process uses re-pricing schedules, which group assets, debt and swaps into discrete time bands based on their re-pricing characteristics. under this process, ford credit enters into interest rate swaps, which effectively change the re-pricing profile of its debt, to ensure that any re-pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time band falls within an established tolerance. as a result of its interest rate risk management process, ford credit debt, combined with the derivative instruments economically hedging its debt, re-prices faster than its assets. other things equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on ford credit debt will increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially reducing ford credit pre-tax cash flow. correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit pre-tax cash flow would be expected to initially increase. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a parallel 71 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ( continued ) shift ), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. the differences between these scenarios and the base case over a twelve-month period represent an estimate of the sensitivity of ford credit pre-tax cash flow. the sensitivity as of year-end 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions): december 31, 2006 december 31, 2005 pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates $ (55 ) $ (40 ) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates 55 40 based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one percentage point instantaneous change in interest rates was higher at year-end 2006 than at year-end 2005. this change primarily reflects the results of normal fluctuations within the approved tolerances of risk management strategy. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit best estimate of the impacts of specified assumed interest rate scenarios, the model ford credit uses for this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions, so that actual results could differ from those projected. embedded in the model ford credit uses are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit repayment projections of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors were to change, the actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. additionally, interest rate changes of one percentage point or more are rarely instantaneous or parallel, and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed above. the model used to conduct this analysis also relies heavily on assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, and predicted repayment of sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. the fair value of ford credit net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) as reported in note 22 of the notes to the financial statements as of december 31, 2006 was $1.5 billion compared with $1.9 billion at december 31, 2005. the decrease in fair value reflects primarily mark-to-market adjustments resulting from higher interest rates, partially offset by translation gains resulting from the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and the british pound. for additional information on ford credit derivatives, please refer to the financial services sector discussion in note 22 of the notes to the financial statements.risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors. beginning in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on ford and the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. in the united states, industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007, to 13.5 million units in 2008 and to 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010. for the 19 markets we track in europe, industry sales volume declined fro m 18 million units in 2007, to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009 and 15.3 million units in 2010. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumptions, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the "overview" section of item 7. decline in market share or failure to achieve growth. between 1995 and 2008, our full-year u.s. market share declined each year; from 2004 to 2008, our u.s. market share declined from 18% to 14.2%. with our one ford plan, we have seen u.s. market share gains in 2009 and 2010. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, however, we also must grow our market share in fast-growing emerging markets, particularly in asia pacific, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets. a decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in emerging market could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside of our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be aff ected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. an increase in or acceleration of market shift beyond our current planning assumptions from sales of trucks, medium- and large-sized utilities, or other more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. trucks and medium- and large-sized utilities historically have represented some of our most profitable vehicle segments, and the segments in which we have had our highest market share. in the 2005 2008 period, the general shift in consumer preferences in the u.s. market away from medium- and large-sized utilities and trucks adversely affected our overall market share and profitability. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks, a shift in consumer pr eferences away from more profitable vehicle sales at levels greater than our current planning assumption whether because of fuel prices, declines in the construction industry, governmental actions or incentives, or other reasons could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in fuel prices, continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, as well as continued price volatility or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable medium and large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand for these segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2011 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 17 million units in 2010. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, particularly in the european and u.s. markets. a continuation or increase in excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. adverse effects from the bankruptcy, insolvency, or government-funded restructuring of, change in ownership or control of, or alliances entered into by a major competitor. prior to the government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic competitors general motors and chrysler, each of the domestic automakers had substantial "legacy" costs (principally related to employee benefits), as well as a substantial amount of debt. these conditions historically had put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign competitors who began manufacturing in the united states more recently. the government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic competitors has allowed them to eliminate or substantially reduce contractual obligations, including signi ficant amounts of debt, and avoid other liabilities. the elimination or reduction of these obligations, combined with the benefits attendant to restructuring brands and dealer networks as well as access to low-cost government funding, could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addi tion, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price and interest rate risks. economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. our industry is highly interdependent, with broad overlap of supplier and dealer networks among manufacturers, such that the uncontrolled bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor or major suppliers could threaten our supplier or dealer network and thus pose a threat to us as well. even in the absence of such an event, our supply base has experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes in recent years that affected all manufacturers.&# 160; dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage. these factors increased pressure on the supply base, and, as a result, suppliers were not only less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases, as well as new and shorter payment terms. in addition, in the past we have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. suppliers also exited certain lines of business or closed facilities, which results in additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. in addition, as industry volume improves with the general economic recovery, suppliers that downsized significantly during the economic downturn may face capacity constraints as demand recovers that could cause temporary shortages of supplies or components. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier in order to provide the components or materials. in addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. 25 item 1a. risk factors (continued) labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a new agreement with the uaw in 2007 and with the caw in 2008 which expire in september 2011 and september 2012, respectively. although these transformational agreements were amended during 2009 to bring us much of the way to parity with our competitors, the agreements still provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and a degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. additionally, rejection by ford-uaw membership of further modifications to the collective bargaining agreement in late 2009 (i.e., rejection of a proposed "no strike" clause and binding arbitration provision), which were agreed to with our domestic competitors, may put us at a disadvantage during the next round of labor negotiations; see "employment data" in "item 1. business" ("item 1") for additional discussion. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom in these regions promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to close manufacturing or other facilities. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of production. a work stoppage or other interruption of production could occur at ford or supplier facilities as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, supplier financial distress, production constraints, or other reasons. for example, many suppliers experienced financial distress due to decreasing production volume and increasing prices for raw materials during 2008 and 2009, jeopardizing their ability to produce parts for us. now, because of the restructuring that took place in the supply base during that period, as production volume increases suppliers may experience capacity constraints. a work stoppage or interruption of production at ford or supplier facilities due to labor disputes, shortages of supplies, or any other reason (including but not limited to tight credit markets or other financial distress, natural or man-made disasters, information technology issues, or production constraints or difficulties) could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. we have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits for retired employees, primarily health care and life insurance benefits. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans, including funded status. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ("erisa"). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe that it is not likely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. as of december 31, 2010, our u.s. and worldwide defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $6.7 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. in addition, if our operating results and available cash were insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations. we might not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and any proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension and postretirement health care or life insurance obligations then due. 26 item 1a. risk factors (continued) worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and result of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change." section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("tax attributes"). at december 31, 2010 we had tax attributes that would offset $20 billion of taxable income (representing about $7 billion of our $15.7 billion in deferred tax assets subject to valuation allowance). an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. restructuring actions w e took in 2009, including our exchange of ford common stock for convertible debt and our public issuance of additional ford common stock, contributed significantly to the collective increase in ownership by 5 percent shareholders. at present, 5 percent shareholders may have collectively increased their ownership in ford by more than 25 percentage points. in september 2009, we implemented a tax benefit preservation plan (the "plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of ford's outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. further, adverse publicity surrounding actual or alleged safety-related or other defects could damage our reputation and adversely affect sales of our products. increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of governmental regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. governmental regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing their balance of paymen ts. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing governmental regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations (already enacted, adopted or proposed) could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "governmental standards" discussion in item 1 above. 27 item 1a. risk factors (continued) unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal law and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation of a defect, regulatory violation or other matter (with or without corresponding litigation or governmental investigation) may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on sales of our products. a change in our requirements where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract. adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain or increase investment, workforce or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of the accounting for government incentives, and "item 3. legal proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in brazil. adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events. we conduct business in countries around the world, and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging and newly-developed markets. these activities expose us to, among other things, risks associated with geo-political events, such as: governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of operations in a particular country as a result of political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities; or acts of terrorism. such events could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of opera tions. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 28 item 1a. risk factors (continued) substantial levels of automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations. although we reduced automotive debt significantly in 2010, we remain highly leveraged as we work to improve our balance sheet. our significant automotive debt could have important consequences, including the following: we must pay interest on our significant indebtedness, which may reduce funds available to us for operations and other purposes to levels below that of our competitors with lower interest costs; and our level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. for further information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, including our secured credit agreement established in december 2006 ("credit agreement"), see the discussion in item 7 under the captions "liquidity and capital resources" and "overview," and in note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities. as permitted under our credit agreement, we have repaid $6.7 billion under our revolving credit facility, which we can re-borrow until the facility terminates. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets. in the event of a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets, ford credit would consider reducing the amount of receivables it purchases or originates. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. to the extent ford credit's ability to provide wholesale financing to our dealers or retail financing to those dealers' customers is limited, ford's ability to sell vehicles could be adversely affected. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. in 2005 and 2006, the credit ratings assigned to ford credit were lowered to below investment grade, which increased its unsecured borrowing costs and restricted its access to the unsecured debt markets. in response, ford credit increased its use of securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and other sources of funding. in 2010, although ford credit experienced several credit rating upgrades and its credit spreads narrowed considerably, its credit ratings are still below investment grade. ford credit's higher credit ratings have provided it more economical access to the unsecured debt markets, but it is still utilizing asset-backed securitization transactions for a substantial amount of its funding. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford cre dit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. for additional discussion regarding credit losses, see the "critical accounting estimates" disclosures in item 7. 29 item 1a. risk factors (continued) increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increas e, which could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. after ford credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers. lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. a ctual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. all of these factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability. for additional discussion of residual values, see the "critical accounting estimates" disclosures in item 7. imposition of additional costs or restrictions due to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ("act") and its implementing rules and regulations. the act was enacted on july 21, 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets, including certain commercial transactions such as derivatives contracts. among other things, the act creates a consumer financial protection bureau with broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit' retail automotive financing business in the united states. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the federal deposit insurance corporation ("fdic") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that it is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. in addition, the act provides that a finance company could be designated a "significant non-bank financial company" by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer fdic-insured deposits. further, the act prohibits the use of credit ratings in a prospectus (which is required to be included for securitization offerings such as those conducted by us) without the consent of the rating agency. the rating agencies have indicated they will not consent to such inclusion . the sec has provided indefinite relief from this requirement for public offerings of asset-backed securities through a no-action letter. without such relief, the public securitization markets would be impaired in the united states. federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the act, and, consequently, the effects of the act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for months or years. the act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on ford credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. 30 item 1a. risk factors (continued) new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. in the united states, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capit al reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. inability of ford credit to obtain competitive funding . other institutions that provide automotive financing to certain of our competitors have access to relatively low-cost government-insured or other funding. for example, financial institutions with bank holding company status may have access to other lower cost sources of funding. access by our competitors' dealers and customers to financing provided by financial institutions with relatively low-cost funding that is not available to ford credit could adversely affect ford credit's ability to support the sale of ford vehicles at competitive cost and rates. this in turn would adversely affect the marketability of f ord vehicles in comparison to certain competitive brands. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" ("item 7a") for a discussion of commodity price risks. backlog orders. we generally produce and ship our products on average within approximately 20 days after an order is deemed to become firm. therefore, no significant amount of backlog orders accumulates during any period. intellectual property. we own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global basis. our policy is to protect our competitive position by, among other methods, filing u.s. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. we have generated a large number of patents, and expect this portfolio to continue to grow as we actively pursue additional technological innovation. we currently have approximately 15,600 active patents and pending patent applications globally, with an average age for patents in our active patent portfolio of just over five and a half years. in addition to this intellectual property, we a lso rely on our proprietary knowledge and ongoing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. although we believe that these patents, patent applications, and know-how, in the aggregate, are important to the conduct of our business, and we obtain licenses to use certain intellectual property owned by others, none is individually considered material to our business. we also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our company and its products and services globally. certain of these marks are integral to the conduct of our business, a loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 4 item 1. business (continued) warranty coverage and additional service actions. we currently provide warranties on vehicles we sell. warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product, usage of the product and the geographic location of its sale. in compliance with regulatory requirements, we also provide emissions-defects and emissions-performance warranty coverage. pursuant to these warranties, ford will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. in addition to the costs associated with the warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of additional servic e actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. for additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 31 of the notes to the financial statements. industry sales volume industry volumes are internal estimates based on publicly-available data collected from various government, private, and public sources around the globe. our market share is a percentage that our sales represent in the total industry volumes. the following chart shows industry sales volume for the united states, and for the markets we track in europe, south america and asia pacific africa for the last five years (in millions of units): industry sales volume * 201 0 2009 2008 2007 2006 united states 11.8 10.6 13.5 16.5 17.1 europe 15.3 15.9 16.6 18. 0 17.8 south america 5.0 4.2 4.3 4.1 3.2 asia pacific africa 30.7 24.5 20.9 20.4 18.6 * throughout this report, industry sales volume includes sales of medium and heavy trucks. see discussion of each market below for definition of the markets we track. united states industry sales data. the following table shows u.s. industry sales of cars and trucks (in millions of units): u.s. industry sales years ended december 31, 201 0 2009 2008 2007 2006 cars 5.9 5.6 7.1 7.9 8.1 trucks 5.9 5.0 6.4 8.6 9.0 we classify cars by small, medium, large, and premium segments, and trucks by compact pickup, bus/van (including minivans), full-size pickup, utilities (both car-based and traditional truck-based platform vehicles), premium, and medium/heavy segments. in the tables below, we have classified all of our luxury cars and trucks as "premium," regardless of size. annually, we review various factors to determine the appropriate classification of vehicle segments and the vehicles within those segments, and this review occasionally results in a change of classification for certain vehicles. 5 item 1. business (continued) the following tables show the proportion of u.s. car and truck unit sales by segment for the industry (including domestic and foreign-based manufacturers) and for ford: u.s. industry vehicle mix of sales by segment years ended december 31, 201 0 2009 2008 2007 2006 cars small 21.9 % 23.7 % 22.9 % 19.8 % 19.0 % medium 15.5 16.1 15.5 13.6 13.1 large 5.3 5.4 6.1 7.0 7.5 premium 6.9 7.3 7.8 7.8 7.6 total u.s. industry car sales 49.6 52.5 52.3 48.2 47.2 trucks compact pickup 2.2 2.6 2.8 3.2 3.5 bus/van 5.7 5.5 6.1 6.6 7.8 full-size pickup 11.7 10.8 11.9 13.5 13.3 utilities 24.3 22.7 21.0 22.4 21.2 premium 4.9 4.4 3.9 4.1 4.0 medium/heavy 1.6 1.5 2.0 2.0 3.0 total u.s. industry truck sales 50.4 47.5 47.7 51.8 52.8 total u.s. industry vehicle sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % ford u.s. vehicle mix of sales by segment* years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 cars small 13.9 % 14.0 % 15.0 % 12.8 % 12.5 % medium 12.8 12.8 9.3 7.8 12.9 large 6.8 6.8 7.7 8.4 8.2 premium 2.5 3.1 3.1 2.5 3.1 total ford u.s. car sales 36.0 36.7 35.1 31.5 36.7 trucks compact pickup 2.9 3.4 3.4 3.0 3.4 bus/van 7.0 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 full-size pickup 27.3 25.6 27.2 29.1 29.6 utilities 24.7 26.2 25.1 26.0 20.1 premium 1.9 2.0 2.3 2.6 1.0 medium/heavy 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.6 total ford u.s. truck sales 64.0 63.3 64.9 68.5 63.3 total ford u.s. vehicle sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % _________ * these data include sales of ford, lincoln, and mercury vehicles; as previously disclosed, the mercury brand was discontinued at the end of 2010 . as the tables above indicate, the industry had been shifting from trucks to cars as consumer preferences moved toward smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. in 2010, this trend reversed as car-like crossover utilities became more prevalent in the marketplace. the full-size pickup segment, both for recreational and commercial users, also has rebounded in response to new product introductions and economic improvement. in 2010, overall changes in our u.s. vehicle mix generally followed the overall direction of u.s. industry trends. our year-over-year decline in car mix was slightly less than the general industry as our new fiesta and full-year availability of our redesigned fusion and fusion hybrid continued to gain customers. in our truck segments, the f-series outpaced the indust ry full-size pickup segment as well as the total industry leading to the higher mix gain. also increasing our truck segment mix was the first full year of our transit connect van designed to combine improved fuel economy with commercial vehicle capability and durability. market share data. the competitive environment in the united states has intensified and is expected to continue to intensify as japanese and korean manufacturers increase imports to the united states and increase production capacity in north america. our principal competitors in the united states include general motors company ("general motors"), chrysler group llc ("chrysler"), toyota motor corporation ("toyota"), honda motor company ("honda"), nissan motor company ("nissan"), and hyundai-kia automotive group ("hyundai-kia"). 6 item 1. business (continued) the following tables show u.s. car and truck market share for ford (ford, lincoln, and mercury brand vehicles only) and for the other six leading vehicle manufacturers: u.s. car market shares (a) years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 ford 5.9 % 5.5 % 5.0 % 4.6 % 5.8 % general motors 7.5 9.0 9.9 9.6 9.8 chrysler 2.6 2.5 3.6 4.2 4.1 toyota 8.2 10.0 10.0 9.2 8.6 honda 6.0 6.5 6.6 5.3 4.9 nissan 5.0 4.8 4.4 3.8 3.2 hyundai-kia 5.1 4.8 3.5 3.0 2.8 all other (b) 9.3 9.4 9.3 8.5 8.0 total u.s. car deliveries 49.6 % 52.5 % 52.3 % 48.2 % 47.2 % u.s. truck market shares (a) years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 ford 10.5 % 9.8 % 9.2 % 10.0 % 10.2 % general motors 11.3 10.6 12.0 13.6 14.1 chrysler 6.6 6.3 7.2 8.4 8.4 toyota 6.8 6.7 6.4 6.7 6.3 honda 4.4 4.3 4.0 4.1 3.9 nissan 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.7 2.8 hyundai-kia 2.5 2.1 1.5 1.7 1.6 all other (b) 5.6 5.2 4.7 4.6 5.5 total u.s. truck deliveries 50.4 % 47.5 % 47.7 % 51.8 % 52.8 % u.s. combined car and truck market shares (a) years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 ford 16.4 % 15.3 % 14.2 % 14.6 % 16.0 % general motors 18.8 19.6 21.9 23.2 23.9 chrysler 9.2 8.8 10.8 12.6 12.5 toyota 15.0 16.7 16.4 15.9 14.9 honda 10.4 10.8 10.6 9.4 8.8 nissan 7.7 7.3 7.1 6.5 6.0 hyundai-kia 7.6 6.9 5.0 4.7 4.4 all other (b) 14.9 14.6 14.0 13.1 13.5 total u.s. car and truck deliveries 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % __________ (a) all u.s. sales data are based on publicly available information from the media and trade publications. (b) "all other" primarily includes other japanese manufacturers and various european manufacturers, and, with respect to the u.s. truck market shares table and u.s. combined car and truck market shares table, includes medium and heavy truck manufacturers. our improvement in overall market share is the result of several factors, including favorable acceptance of our redesigned products, product focus on industry growth segments, and customers' increasing awareness and acceptance of our commitment to leadership in quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart technologies, and value. fleet sales. the sales and market share information provided above includes both retail and fleet sales. fleet sales include sales to commercial fleet customers, leasing companies, daily rental car companies, and governments. in general, fleet sales tend to be less profitable than retail sales. see item 7 for discussion of revenue recognition for sales to daily rental car companies. 7 item 1. business (continued) the table below shows our fleet sales in the united states, and the amount of those combined sales as a percentage of our total u.s. car and truck sales for the last five years (in thousands): ford fleet sales* years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 commercial and other units 256 156 217 268 277 daily rental units 236 205 237 304 447 government units 126 127 153 158 162 total fleet units 618 488 607 730 886 percent of total u.s. car and truck sales 32 % 30 % 32 % 30 % 32 % ________ * these data include sales of ford, lincoln, and mercury vehicles. higher fleet sales in 2010 primarily reflected an overall industry increase in commercial and rental sectors. we also improved year-over-year fleet segment market share as our commercial and government business outperformed the industry. we continue to maintain commercial and government segment market share leadership over all brands. canada and mexico canada and mexico also are important markets for us. in canada, industry sales volume for new cars and trucks in 2010 was approximately 1.58 million units, up 7% from 2009 levels. industry sales volume in mexico for new cars and trucks in 2010 was approximately 848,000 units, up about 10% from 2009. the increase in industry sales volume in these markets reflected the recovery of the economy from the slowdown that had begun in late 2008. our combined car and truck market share in canada was 16.9% in 2010 (up 2.1 percentage points from a year ago), which represents our highest full-year share since 2001 and made ford the number-one selling automaker in canada. in mexico, our market share in 2010 was 10.5%, down 1.3 percentage points from the previous year. europe 19 markets data. outside of the united states, europe is our largest market for the sale of cars and trucks. the automotive industry in europe is intensely competitive. our principal competitors in europe include general motors, volkswagen a.g. group, psa group, renault group, and fiat spa. for the past 10 years, the top six manufacturers have collectively held between 69% and 75% of the total market. this competitive environment is expected to intensify further as japanese and korean manufacturers increase their production capacity in europe, and as manufacturers of premium brands (e.g., bmw, mercedes-benz, and audi) continue to broaden their product offerings. for purposes of this discussion, 2010 market data are based on estimated registrations currently available; percentage change is measured from actual 2009 registrations. we track industry sales in europe for the following 19 markets: britain, germany, france, italy, spain, austria, belgium, ireland, netherlands, portugal, switzerland, finland, sweden, denmark, norway, czech republic, greece, hungary, and poland. in 2010, vehicle manufacturers sold approximately 15.3 million cars and trucks in these 19 markets, down about 3.5% from 15.9 million units in 2009. the decline was largely attributable to the cessation of government scrappage programs during 2010, which were in place during 2009 to incentivize new vehicle purchases during the economic crisis that began in late 2008. ford-brand combined car and truck market share in 2010 was approximately 8.4% (down 0.7 percentage points from the previous year). britain and germany are our highest-volume markets within europe. any change in the british or german market has a significant effect on the results of our ford europe segment. in britain, industry sales increased to 2.3 million units in 2010, or by 3.2% from 2009 levels (which were considerably lower than the prior year due to the economic crisis that began late in 2008). in germany, government stimulus programs ended in the last quarter of 2009, contributing to a 21% decrease in 2010 industry sales to 3.2 million units compared with 4 million units in 2009. our ford-brand combined car and truck share in 2010 was 15% in britain (down 1.8 percentage points from the previous year), and 6.9% in germany (down 0.8 percentage points from the previous year). turkey. although not included in the 19 european markets discussed above, turkey contributes to our ford europe segment results. industry sales volume in turkey in 2010 was about 800,000 units, compared with 600,000 units in 2009. 8 item 1. business (continued) ford's share of the turkish market increased in 2010 by 0.7 percentage points to 15.8%, the ninth year in a row that the ford brand led the market in sales in turkey. russia . in addition to the 19 markets and turkey discussed above, russia also is becoming a significant market for our ford europe segment. as a result of government stimulus in russia, industry sales volume in 2010 was about two million units, an increase of 31% compared to 2009 levels, which had fallen nearly 50% from 2008 levels as a result of the economic crisis. in 2010, our market share in russia declined by 0.9 percentage points from 2009 to 4.6%. over the next several years, we expect industry sales volumes in russia to grow rapidly and perhaps even exceed sales volumes in germany, europe's largest market. in february 2011, russia introduced a new automotive industrial regime pursuant to which automotive manufacturers in russia must meet the following criteria in order to qualify for reduced import duties on automotive components for the next eight years: (i) assembly capacity of 350,000 vehicles annually within the next three years, (ii) substantial localization of component supply, including engines, stampings and other components, and (iii) establishment of a research and development center. applications to participate in this new industrial regime are due in february 2011. we, together with our proposed russian joint venture part ner, have submitted an application to qualify for the reduced import duties. motor vehicle distribution in europe. in october 2009, the european commission decided to abolish the 2002 block exemption law that had been specific to vehicle distribution agreements, and to adopt instead a new generic regulation applying to all manufacturer-distributor relationships. there were no changes to after-market rules, but for retail distribution the following significant changes as compared with the previous block exemption law are now in effect: termination at will of distributor agreements is permitted (generally, with two years' notice) previously, there could only be termination for cause. all distributor showroom/selling areas may be required to be exclusive previously, manufacturers were required to permit multi-brand outlets. no guaranteed right exists for distributors to open additional sales or delivery outlets previously, this right did exist. manufacturers now may object to a transfer of ownership by the existing dealer, and have right of first refusal previously, this right did not exist. the new law represents a marked improvement for manufacturers, and ford europe currently is negotiating new agreements with its dealers reflecting these improvements. south america ford south america market share is based on our six major markets in the region (argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador and venezuela). of these, brazil, argentina, and venezuela are our principal markets in south america. industry sales in 2010 were approximately 3.5 million units in brazil (up 11.9% from 2009), 655,000 units in argentina (up 28.7% from 2009), and 126,000 units in venezuela (down 7.4% from 2009). our combined car and truck share for ford-brand vehicles in these markets was 10.4% in brazil (up 0.1 percentage points from 2009), 12.4% in argentina (down 0.9 percentage points from 2009), and 18.5% in venezuela (down 2.4 percentage points from 2009). brazil's economic environment and demographics, with relatively low inflation in recent years, growing per capita income, low vehicle ownership rates and a young population, have allowed its automotive market to more than double since 2002. these favorable factors are expected to continue to contribute to growth in vehicle sales in brazil. asia pacific africa ford asia pacific africa industry and market share data focus on our 12 major markets in the region (australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand and vietnam). industry sales in the region in 2010 were more than 30 million units, up from 24 million units in 2009. of the markets we track in this region, australia, china, india, south africa, and taiwan are our principal markets. industry sales in 2010 were approximately 1 million units in australia (up 10.5% from 2009), 18.3 million units in china (up 30% from 2009), 3.1 million units in india (up 35.5% from 2009), 426,000 units in south africa (up 20.3% from 2009), and 328,000 units in taiwan (up 11.3% from 2009). 9 item 1. business (continued) small cars account for 60% of asia pacific africa industry sales volume, and are anticipated to continue to benefit from government fiscal policy. we anticipate that the ongoing relaxation of import restrictions (including duty reductions) will continue to intensify competition in the region, particularly around small, ultra-affordable passenger cars. the highly successful launch of our all-new figo in india demonstrates our ability to successfully compete in key growth segments. our combined car and truck share in these markets (including sales of ford-brand vehicles, and market share for certain unconsolidated affiliates, particularly in china) was as follows in 2010: 2010 market market share over/(under) 2009 australia 9.2% (1.1) ppt. china 2.5% india 2.6% 1.3 ppt. south africa 7.7% 0. 1 ppt. taiwan 6.1% china and india are key markets in the asia pacific africa region that will continue to drive new economic growth. already, china's industry sales volume has increased from about six million units in 2005 to more than 18 million units in 2010, and india's industry sales volume increased from about one million units in 2005 to about three million units in 2010. moreover, the driving age population with disposable income for vehicle purchases is expected to grow from about 700 million to more than 1.1 billion in china by 2020, and from about 165 million to more than 500 million in india over the same period. this suggests continued rapid and substantial growth in those markets in the next ten years. accordingly, we have increased and are planning to increase further our dealer networks and manufacturing capacity in the region. in china, through our joint ventures, we plan to open three new plants by 2014 to meet anticipated demand and grow ford-brand market share. in india, we have invested $500 million to significantly increase our presence through expansion of our current manufacturing facility in chennai for production of our new ford figo sub-b car, and construction of a fully-integrated and flexible engine manufacturing plant. we are aggressively expanding in thailand as well. at our joint venture assembly facility in rayong, thailand we have completed a $500 million expansion for the production of ford fiesta and mazda2 small cars, and announced an investment of $350 million to support the production of next-generation pickup trucks with production of the all-new ford ranger commencing this year. additionally, construction is underway for a new, highly-flexible $450 million ford assembly plant, also located in rayong, which is scheduled for completion in 2012 and which will begin with production of the new ford focus. financial services sector ford motor credit company llc ford motor credit company llc ("ford credit") offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world. the predominant share of ford credit's business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers. ford credit earns its revenue primarily from: payments made under retail installment sale and lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest supplements and other support payments from us and our subsidiaries on special-rate financing programs; and payments made under wholesale and other dealer loan financing programs. as a result of these financing activities, ford credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and leases which it classifies into two segments "consumer" and "non-consumer." finance receivables and leases in the consumer segment relate to products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use. the financing products include retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles, and leases for new vehicles to retail customers, government entities, daily rental companies and fleet customers. finance receivables in the non-consumer segment relate primarily to products offered to automotive dealers, including loans to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory (wholesale financing), for improvements to dealership facilities, for working capital, and for purchase of dealership real estate. ford credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our subsidiaries, primarily in connection with the sale of parts and accessories. ford credit does business in all states in the united states and in all provinces in canada through regional business centers. outside of the united states, fce bank plc ("fce") is ford credit's largest operation. fce's primary 10 item 1. business (continued) business is to support the sale of our vehicles in europe through our dealer network. fce offers a variety of retail, leasing and wholesale finance plans in most countries in which it operates; fce does business in the united kingdom, germany, and most other european countries. ford credit, through its subsidiaries, also operates in the asia pacific and latin american regions. in addition, fce, through its worldwide trade financing division, provides financing to dealers in countries where typically we have no established local presence. ford credit's share of retail financing for new ford, lincoln, and mercury brand vehicles sold by dealers in the united states and new ford-brand vehicles sold by dealers in europe, as well as ford credit's share of wholesale financing for new ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles acquired by dealers in the united states (excluding fleet) and of new ford-brand vehicles acquired by dealers in europe, were as follows during the last three years: united states years ended december 31, financing share ford, lincoln, and mercury 2010 2009 2008 retail installment and lease 32 % 29 % 39 % wholesale 81 79 77 europe financing share ford retail installment and lease 26 % 28 % 28 % wholesale 99 99 98 see item 7 and notes 7, 8 and 9 of the notes to the financial statements for a detailed discussion of ford credit's receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. see item 7a for a discussion of how ford credit manages its financial market risks. we routinely sponsor special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we transfer the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. these programs increase ford credit's financing volume and share of financing sales of our vehicles. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for information about our accounting for these programs. on november 6, 2008, we and ford credit entered into an amended and restated support agreement ("support agreement"). pursuant to the support agreement, if ford credit's managed leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 11.5 to 1 (as reported in ford credit's then-most recent form 10-q report or form 10-k report), ford credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to ford credit in an amount sufficient to have caused such managed leverage to have been 11.5 to 1. a copy of the support agreement was filed as exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on form 10-q for the period ended september 30, 2008. no capital contributions have been made to ford credit pursuant to the support agreement. in addition, ford credit has an agr eement to maintain fce's net worth in excess of $500 million. no payments have been made by ford credit to fce pursuant to the agreement during the 2001 through 2010 periods. governmental standards many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment manufactured for sale in the united states, europe, and elsewhere. in addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities in the united states, europe, and elsewhere are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. mobile source emissions control u.s. requirements federal emissions standards. the federal clean air act imposes stringent limits on the amount of regulated pollutants that lawfully may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines produced for sale in the united states. the current ("tier 2") emissions regulations promulgated by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") set standards for cars and light trucks. the tier 2 emissions standards also establish durability requirements for emissions components to 120,000 or 150,000 miles (depending on the specific standards to which the vehicle is certified). these standards require the use of sophisticated exhaust aftertreatment equipment, and present compliance challenges. 11 item 1. business (continued) the epa also has standards and requirements for epa-defined "heavy-duty" vehicles and engines (generally, those vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500-14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight). these standards and requirements include stringent evaporative hydrocarbon standards for gasoline vehicles, and stringent exhaust emission standards for all vehicles. in order to meet the diesel standards, manufacturers must employ after-treatment technologies, such as diesel particulate filters or selective catalytic reduction ("scr") systems, which require periodic customer maintenance. these technologies add significant cost to the emissions control system, and present potential issues associated with consumer acceptance. the epa has issued guidance regarding maintenance intervals and the warn ing systems that must be used to alert motorists to the need for maintenance of scr systems, which are incorporated into some of our heavy-duty vehicles. one heavy-duty engine manufacturer that does not rely on scr technology challenged epa's heavy-duty standards and related scr guidance, and also challenged the certification of scr-equipped vehicles by the california air resources board ("carb"). in settling these cases, the agencies agreed to hold manufacturer workshops and consider the development of more stringent criteria for scr warning systems. epa has indicated that it will be issuing revised draft guidance on scr warning systems in early 2011. should the agencies develop guidance or policies that interfere with our ability to use scr technology, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce and sell heavy-duty vehicles. u.s. requirements california and other state emissions standards. pursuant to the clean air act, california may seek a waiver from the epa to establish unique emissions control standards for motor vehicles; each new or modified proposal requires a new waiver of preemption from the epa. california has received a waiver from the epa to establish its own unique emissions control standards for certain regulated pollutants. new vehicles and engines sold in california must be certified by carb. carb's current low emission vehicle or "lev ii" emissions standards treat most light-duty trucks the same as passenger cars, and require both types of vehicles to meet stringent new emissions requirements. like the epa's tier 2 emis sions standards, carb's lev ii vehicle emissions standards also present a difficult engineering challenge. the california program includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles ("zevs") which emit no regulated pollutants. carb has adopted amendments to the zev mandate that allow advanced-technology vehicles (e.g., hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles) with extremely low tailpipe emissions to qualify for zev credits. the rules also give some zev credits for so-called "partial zero-emission vehicles" ("pzevs"), which can be internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions. the current rules require increasing volumes of battery electric and other advanced technology vehicles with each passing model year. we plan to comply with the zev regulations through the sale of a variety of batte ry-electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and pzevs. our compliance plan entails significant costs, and has a variety of inherent risks, including potential component shortages that may make it difficult to produce vehicles in sufficient quantities. the clean air act permits other states that do not meet national ambient air quality standards ("naaqs") to adopt california's motor vehicle emissions standards no later than two years before the affected model year. in addition to california, fourteen states, primarily located in the northeast and northwest, have adopted the california standards for current and/or future model years (and eleven of these states also have adopted the zev requirements). these states, together with california, account for more than 30% of ford's current light-duty vehicle sales volume in the united states. it is possible that other states may adopt the california standards in the future. the adoption of california standards by other states presents challenges for manufacturers, including the following: 1) managing fleet average emissions standards and zev mandate requirements on a state-by-state basis presents difficulties from the standpoint of planning and distribution; 2) market acceptance of some vehicles required by the zev program varies from state to state, depending on weather and other factors; and 3) the states adopting the california program have not adopted california's clean fuel regulations, which may impair the ability of vehicles in other states to meet california's in-use standards. carb has indicated that it is planning a complete overhaul of its lev, zev, and ghg regulations. the agency is expected to propose "lev iii" rules in the third quarter of 2011, and finalize the rules in 2012. we anticipate that the lev iii rules will contain a host of new and more stringent requirements for tailpipe emissions, evaporative emissions, and test procedures beginning with the 2014 model year. carb also is expected to propose modifications to its zev regulations this year. the revised zev program is expected to focus on requirements to produce ever-increasing numbers of vehicles using battery-electric, fuel cell, plug-in hybrid, and hydrogen internal combustion engine technologies. under the new regulatory approach, manufacturers that produce higher numbers of vehicl es specified as zevs may be allowed to meet less stringent fleet average ghg levels. the revised zev regulations likely will apply to the 2018-2025 model years, and preliminary indications are that the regulations will require a steep ramp-up in zevs. 12 item 1. business (continued) in general, compliance with the revised regulations is likely to require costly actions that could have a substantial adverse effect on our sales volume and profits, depending on such factors as the specific emission levels required in the lev iii program and the volumes of advanced-technology vehicles required by the zev mandate. in particular, there is concern that neither consumer preferences nor the refueling/recharging infrastructure will support the dramatic increase in advanced-technology vehicles likely to be required by 2025 under the new zev mandate. ford will work with carb directly and through the alliance of automobile manufacturers ("alliance") in an effort to promote regulations that are reasonable and technologically feasible. u.s. requirements warranty, recall, and on-board diagnostics. the clean air act permits the epa and carb to require manufacturers to recall and repair non-conforming vehicles (which may be identified by testing or analysis done by the manufacturer, the epa or carb), and we may voluntarily stop shipment of or recall non-conforming vehicles. the costs of related repairs or inspections associated with such recalls, or a stop-shipment order, could be substantial. both carb and the epa also have adopted on-board diagnostic ("obd") regulations, which require a vehicle to monitor its emissions control system and notify the vehicle operator (via the "check engine" light) of any malfunction. these regulations have become extremely complicated, and require substantial engineering resources to create compliant systems. carb's obd rules for vehicles under 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight include a variety of requirements that phase in between the 2006 and 2012 model years. carb also has adopted obd requirements for heavy-duty gasoline and diesel engines that apply to the 2010 and later model years, and epa has adopted light-duty and heavy-duty obd requirements that generally align with carb's; the epa also accepts certification to carb's obd requirements. the complexity of the obd requirements and the difficulties of meeting all of the monitoring conditions and thresholds make obd approval one of the most challenging aspects of certifying vehicles for emissions compliance. carb regulations contemplate this difficulty, and, in certain instances, permit manufacturers to comply by paying per-vehicle "deficiency" fines in lieu of meeting the full array of obd monitoring requirements. ford is paying deficiency fines on some models as we work to upgrade our obd monitoring systems. if a vehicle does not comply with certain, specified core obd requirements, carb regulations provide for automatic recalls. many states have implemented obd tests as part of inspection and maintenance programs. failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. carb has finalized amendments to the obd regulations for 2010-2017 model years; these rules relax or defer some requirements in the earlier model years, while phasing in some additional requirements in the later model years. additional obd monitoring requirements for diesel vehicles will take effect beginning with the 2013 model year. these requirements will be challenging and may necessitate the temporary payment of deficiency fines for some vehicles as we develop new monitoring systems to satisfy the regulatory criteria. carb also is required to undertake a biennial review of its obd regulations for light-duty vehicles, which is expected to occur in 2011. the biennial review is expected to lead to new obd requirements for hybrid and plug-in hybrid vehicles. automobile manufacturers will make suggestions for streamlining and improving the regulations, but it also is possible that carb may alter the rules in ways that make it more difficult for manufacturers to comply. european requirements. european union ("eu") directives and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the eu. stringent new emissions standards ("stage iv standards") were applied to new passenger car certifications beginning january 1, 2005, and to new passenger car registrations beginning january 1, 2006. the comparable light commercial truck stage iv standards went into effect for new certifications beginning january 1, 2006, and for new registrations beginning january 1, 2007. this directive on emissions also introduced obd requirements, more stringent evaporative emissions requirements, and in-service compliance testing and recall provisions for emissions-related defects that occur in the first five years or 100,000 kilometers of vehicle life. failure of in-service compliance tests could lead to vehicle recalls with substantial costs for related inspections or repairs. stage v emissions requirements began in september 2009 for vehicle registrations starting in january 2011; stage vi requirements will apply from september 2014. stage v particulate standards drove the deployment of particulate filters across diesels, and stage vi further tightens the standard for oxides of nitrogen. this will drive the need for additional diesel exhaust aftertreatment which will add cost and potentially impact the diesel co 2 advantage. these technology requirements add cost and further erode the fuel economy cost/benefit advantage of diesel vehicles. vehicles equipped with scr systems require a driver inducement and warning system to prevent the vehicle being operated for a significant period of time if the reductant (urea) dosing tank is empty. the stage v/vi emission 13 item 1. business (continued) legislation also mandated the internet provision of all repair information (not just emissions-related); information also must be provided to diagnostic tool manufacturers. other national requirements. many countries, in an effort to address air quality concerns, are adopting previous versions of european or united nations economic commission for europe ("un-ece") mobile source emissions regulations. some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of european or u.s. regulations; for example, china plans to adopt the most recent european standards to be implemented starting from 2012 in large cities. korea and taiwan have adopted very stringent u.s.-based standards for gasoline vehicles, and european-based standards for diesel vehicles. because fleet average requirements do not apply, some vehicle emissions control systems may have to be redesigned t o meet the requirements in these markets. furthermore, not all of these countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emissions standards adopted. this could lead to compliance problems, particularly if obd or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented. japan has unique standards and test procedures, and implemented more stringent standards beginning in 2009. this may require unique emissions control systems be designed for the japanese market. canadian criteria emissions regulations are aligned with u.s. federal tier 2 requirements. in south america, brazil, argentina and chile also are introducing more stringent emissions standards. brazil approved euro v emissions and obd standards for heavy trucks starting in 2012; most heavy vehicle manufacturers will use urea scr. more stringent light vehicle limits come into effect in 2012. argentina approved euro iv emissions standards starting in 2009, and euro v for 2012. chile approved a new decontamination plan for its metropolitan region with more stringent emission requirements based on u.s. or eu regulations. fuel quality and content u.s. requirements. currently, epa regulations allow conventional gasoline to contain up to 10% ethanol ("e10"). we and other manufacturers design gasoline-powered vehicles to be able to run on e10 fuel for the full useful life of the vehicle. in 2008 and 2009, a coalition of ethanol producers filed a petition with the epa seeking approval for an increase in the amount of allowable ethanol content in gasoline to 15% ("e15"). under the clean air act, the epa may approve changes to gasoline only if it determines that the change will not cause or contribute to the failure of emission control devices or systems. in 2010, epa announced its decision approving the use of e15 in 2007 model year and newer vehicles. in january 2011, epa i ssued a supplemental decision expanding its approval of the use of e15 in vehicles dating back to the 2001 model year. the automobile industry has concerns about epa's approval of e15 fuel for use in past model-year gasoline-powered vehicles that were not originally designed to use e15 fuel. ethanol is more corrosive than pure gasoline, and fuel containing more than 10% ethanol may detrimentally affect vehicle durability if the vehicle's fuel system has not been designed to accommodate it. the addition of more ethanol to fuel has the potential to result in increased customer dissatisfaction and/or warranty claims for fuel system failures, obd system warnings, and other problems. older vehicles are likely to be more susceptible to such problems. the alliance and the association of international automobile manufacturers ("aiam"), along with many other industry and environmental groups, have filed petitions in the d.c. circuit court of appeals for review of epa's e15 decision. epa also has issued a proposed rule that would require pump labeling and other measures to prevent the misfueling of vehicles not approved to use e15 fuel. the alliance and aiam believe the proposed measures are inadequate and have filed comments to this effect. biomass-based diesel fuel, known as "biodiesel," also is becoming more common in the united states. biodiesel typically is a combination of petroleum-based diesel fuel and fuel derived from "biomass" (biological material from plant or animal sources). biodiesel is approved by the epa as well as a number of u.s. state agencies for use in motor vehicles. while diesel fuel containing 5% biomass-based fuel is now common, higher-concentration blends are becoming more common as well. the content and quality of biodiesel fuels varies considerably. diesel fuel that contains higher concentrations of biomass-based fuels, and/or that contains lower-quality ingredients, can have adverse effects on the durability and performance of diesel engines and on the exhaust emissions from such engines. european requirements. in general, the use of automotive fuel derived from biomass is increasing in the eu, primarily driven by the eu directive on renewable energy. eu member states have issued national implementation plans that suggest different national strategies to comply with its target of 10% renewable energy in 2020. this non-harmonized approach may drive additional costs into engine development to ensure compatibility for higher bio-blend ranges (up to e25 and b10 or even more). 14 item 1. business (continued) stationary source emissions control u.s. requirements. the clean air act requires the epa to periodically review and update its naaqs, and to designate whether counties or other local areas are in compliance with the new standards. if an area or county does not meet the new standards ("non-attainment areas"), the state must revise its implementation plans to achieve attainment. in 2006, the epa issued a final rule increasing the stringency of the naaqs standard for fine particulate matter (particles 2.5 micrometers in diameter or less), while maintaining the existing standard for coarse particulate matter (particles between 2.5 and 10 micrometers in diameter). the epa estimates that the new standard will put approximately 124 counties into non-attainment stat us for fine particulate matter. various parties have filed petitions for review of the final particulate matter rules in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit, in most cases seeking more stringent standards for both fine and coarse particulate matter. in february 2009, the court ordered the epa to reconsider the fine particulate standards, but left the standards in place in the meantime. the epa is in the process of developing new proposed fine particulate naaqs standards, and we expect the revised standards to be more stringent than the 2006 standards. in march 2008, the epa promulgated rules setting a new ozone naaqs at a level more stringent than the previous standard. the epa estimates that as a result of the new standard, the number of counties out of attainment for the ozone naaqs could triple. a number of states and environmental groups filed suit seeking to compel the epa to issue an even more stringent ozone standard. the epa agreed to reconsider the rule and issued a new proposed rule in january 2010. in the new proposal, the epa is considering a primary naaqs standard of 0.060 0.070 parts per million measured over eight hours (by comparison, the 2008 rule was set at 0.075 parts per million). depending upon the standard that ultimately is chosen, approximately 76% to 96% of all areas would be in non-attai nment. epa had been expected to issue its final decision on the ozone naaqs in 2010, but the timing has been postponed to 2011. after issuance of the final ozone and particulate matter naaqs and designation of non-attainment areas, areas that do not meet the standards will need to revise their implementation plans to require additional emissions control equipment and impose more stringent permit requirements on facilities in the area. the existence of additional non-attainment areas can lead to increased pressure for more stringent mobile source emissions standards as well. the cost of complying with the requirements necessary to help bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the revised naaqs may be substantial. the epa also proposed a new hourly naaqs for oxides of nitrogen (as measured by ambient concentrations of nitrogen dioxide ("no 2 ")) in 2009, and adopted a final naaqs in january 2010. the new rule will result in a substantial number of new non-attainment areas for oxides of nitrogen. the naaqs also incorporated a plan for monitoring no 2 concentrations using a newly-developed roadside monitoring network. the roadside monitoring plan may tend to impose additional scrutiny on mobile sources of no 2 relative to other sources that contribute to overall ambient levels. the revis ed naaqs for oxides of nitrogen may lead to additional no 2 standards for both stationary and mobile sources that could be costly and technologically challenging. the epa also issued a final rule in 2009 establishing a national ghg reporting system. facilities with production processes that fall into certain industrial source categories, or that contain boilers and process heaters and emit 25,000 or more metric tons per year of ghgs, will be required to submit annual ghg emission reports to the epa. facilities subject to the rule were required to begin collecting data as of january 1, 2010, and submit an annual report for calendar year 2010 by march 31, 2011. many of our facilities in the united states will be required to submit reports. under the rule, we also will be required to report emissions of certain ghgs from heavy-duty engines and vehicles; these requirements phase in beginning with the 2011 model year. in 2010, the epa issued a final rule (the "psd tailoring rule") that defines the circumstances under which certain ghgs are regulated under the clean air act's new source review - prevention of significant deterioration ("psd") rules and title v operating permits program. the psd tailoring rule was issued due to concerns that, once the epa begins regulating ghgs from motor vehicles, ghgs will become regulated air pollutants under psd and title v, triggering permit requirements for many small sources not currently regulated under those programs. the psd tailoring rule addresses this by phasing in permit requirements through 2012 for sources with at least a 100,000 ton per year co 2 equivalent ("co 2 e") emission level. emission sources that are required to obtain psd permits will be required to apply "best available control technology" ("bact") to limit co 2 e emissions according to guidance issued by epa. epa will reevaluate the rule over time to determine if smaller sources should be included in its scope. a large number of lawsuits have been filed challenging the rule. 15 item 1. business (continued) a large percentage of our facilities will be required to obtain permits for ghg emissions. epa's implementation of the bact guidance, parallel changes to state air programs, and the outcome of the litigation could lead to the installation of additional pollution control equipment, potential delay in the issuance of permits due to changes at a facility, and increased operating costs. european requirements. in europe, environmental legislation is driven by eu law, in most cases in the form of eu directives that must be converted into national legislation. all of our european plants are located in the eu region, with the exception of one in st. petersburg, russia and ford otomotiv sanayi anonim sirketi ("ford otosan") in turkey. one of the core eu directives is the directive on integrated pollution prevention control ("ippc"). the ippc regulates the permit process for facilities, and thus the allowed emissions from these facilities. as in the united states, engine testing, surface coating, casting operations, and boiler houses all fall under this regime. the solvent emission directive which ca me into effect in late 2007 and the industry emissions directive which came into effect in 2011 affect vehicle manufacturing plants, which must upgrade their paint shops to meet the new requirements. the cost of complying with these requirements could be substantial. the european emission trading scheme requires large emitters of carbon dioxide within the eu to monitor and annually report co 2 emissions, and each is obliged every year to return an amount of emission allowances to the government that is equivalent to its co 2 emissions in that year. the impact of this regulation on ford europe primarily involves our on-site combustion plants, and we expect that compliance with this regulation may be costly as the system foresees stringent co 2 emission reductions in progressive stages. periodic emission reporting also is required of eu member states, in most c ases defined in the permits of the facility. the release and transfer register requires more reporting regarding emissions into air, water and soil than its precursor. the information required by these reporting systems is publicly available on the internet. motor vehicle safety u.s. requirements. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 (the "safety act") regulates motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in the united states in two primary ways. first, the safety act prohibits the sale in the united states of any new vehicle or equipment that does not conform to applicable motor vehicle safety standards established by the national highway traffic safety administration ("nhtsa"). meeting or exceeding many safety standards is costly, in part because the standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. second, the safety act requires that defects related to motor vehicle safety be remedied through safety recall campaigns. a manufacturer is obligated to recall veh icles if it determines that the vehicles do not comply with a safety standard. should we or nhtsa determine that either a safety defect or noncompliance exists with respect to any of our vehicles, the cost of such recall campaigns could be substantial. in 2010, there was substantial federal activity related to a spate of recalls from other automobile manufacturers, including significant investigative activity by both nhtsa and committees authorized by congress. nhtsa has taken an aggressive enforcement position related to safety defect investigations in general, increasing the likelihood of safety recalls and civil penalties for the entire industry. while proposed new safety act legislation is not anticipated to be a top priority for the new congress, it is anticipated that nhtsa will propose new regulations related to keyless ignition controls, transmission shifter designs, and brake override of the accelerator function. the safe, accountable, flexible, and efficient transportation equity act: a legacy for users was signed into law in 2005; the cameron gulbransen kids transportation safety act of 2007 mandates that nhtsa enact regulations related to rearward visibility and brake-to-shift interlock, and mandates that nhtsa consider regulations related to automatic reversal functions on power windows. both acts establish substantive, safety-related rulemaking mandates for nhtsa that already have resulted in or will result in new regulations and product content requirements. in 2010, nhtsa issued one final rule regulating the crash test requirements for vehicles with electric powertrains. nhtsa also issued notices of proposed rulemaking concerning rear visibility, ejection mitigation, and automatic reversal function on power windows. driver distraction continues to be a top priority for the department of transportation, and nhtsa activity is anticipated on this subject including voluntary visual-manual interface guidelines and additional research. each of these regulatory actions may add substantial cost to the design and development of new products, depending on the final rules adopted. foreign requirements. the eu and many countries around the world have established safety standards and regulations applicable to motor vehicles, and are likely to adopt additional or more stringent requirements in the future. recent examples of such legislation for the eu include the adoption and mandatory fitment requirement for the new un-ece regulation for tire-pressure monitoring systems ("tpms"); this regulation differs from the north 16 item 1. business (continued) american regulation in that it addresses both safety and environmental aspects of tpms. in addition, the european general safety regulation was introduced that replaces existing european directives with un-ece regulations. these un-ece regulations will be required for the european type approval process. eu regulators also are expected to focus on active safety features such as lane departure warning systems, electronic stability control, and automatic brake assist. globally, governments generally have been adopting eu-based regulations with minor variations to address local concerns. the difference between north american and eu-based regulations adds complexity and costs to the development of global platform vehicles; we continue to support efforts to harmonize regulations to reduce vehicle design complexity while providing a common level of safety performance. global technical regulations ("gtrs") developed under the auspices of the united nations ("un") continue to have increasing impact on automotive safety activities. the most recently adopted gtrs on electronic stability control, head restraints, and pedestrian protection by the un "world forum for the harmonisation of vehicle regulations" are now in different stages of national implementation. while global harmonization is fundamentally supported by the auto industry in order to reduce complexity, national implementation yet may introduce subtle differences into the system. in the asia pacific africa region, china adopted new motor vehicle recall requirements in 2010. the full extent and application of these requirements will be further developed in 2011. governments within the asia pacific africa region continue to adopt european requirements, often with local modifications. among other measures, japanese regulators are pursuing accident avoidance measures for vulnerable road users. south american countries are implementing requirements for features such as airbags, safety belts, and anti-lock braking systems ("abs") consistent with u.s. and european requirements. examples of more stringent safety requirements in south america include the approval in brazil of more severe impact requirements, the mandatory use of front airbags and abs, and the introduction of mandatory vehicle tracking and blocking systems. in argentina, regulations have addressed mandatory phased-in introduction of front airbags, abs, central head restraint, belt alarm, and daytime running lights. a latin american version of the european new car assessment programme was introduced in late 2010. canadian safety legislation and regulations are similar to those in the united states, and the differences that do exist generally have not prevented the production of common product for both markets. recent amendments to canadian standards have incorporated un-ece standards as a compliance option, where equivalency exists. for each of these markets, the possibility of more stringent or different requirements exists, and the cost to comply with new standards may be substantial. motor vehicle fuel economy there are ever-increasing demands from regulators, public interest groups, and consumers for improvements in motor vehicle fuel economy, for a variety of reasons. these include concerns regarding energy security and ghg emissions, and consumer preferences for more fuel-efficient vehicles. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce in upcoming model years. these cycle plan changes involve both the deployment of various fuel-saving technologies, some of which have been announced publicly, and changes to the overall fleet mix of vehicles we offer, in response to a recent increase in demand for smaller vehicles. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily related to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. our ability to comply with a given set of fuel economy standards (including ghg emissions standards, which are functionally equivalent to fuel economy standards), depends on a variety of factors, including: 1) prevailing economic conditions, including fluctuations in fuel prices; 2) the alignment of the standards with actual consumer demand for vehicles; and 3) adequate lead time to make the necessary product changes. consumer demand for vehicles tends to fluctuate based on a variety of external factors. consumers are more likely to pay for vehicles with fuel-efficient technologies (such as hybrid-electric vehicles) when the economy is robust and fuel prices are relatively high. when the economy is in recession and/or fuel prices are relatively low, many consumers may put off new vehicle purcha ses altogether, and among those who do purchase new vehicles, demand for higher-cost 17 item 1. business (continued) technologies is not likely to be strong. if consumers demand vehicles that are relatively large, have high performance, and/or are feature-laden, while regulatory standards require the production of vehicles that are smaller and more economical, the mismatch of supply and demand would have an adverse effect on both regulatory compliance and our profitability. moreover, if regulatory requirements call for rapid, substantial increases in fleet average fuel economy (or decreases in fleet average ghg emissions), we may not have adequate resources and time to make major product changes across most or all of our vehicle fleet (assuming the necessary technology can be developed). u.s. requirements light duty vehicles federal standards. federal law requires that light-duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy ("cafe") standards set by nhtsa. a manufacturer is subject to potentially substantial civil penalties if it fails to meet the cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding three model years and expected credits for the five succeeding model years. in december 2007, congress enacted new energy legislation restructuring the cafe program and requiring nhtsa to set new cafe standards beginning with the 2011 model year. the key features of the law are as follows: 1) maintaining the distinction between cars and trucks; 2) requiring nhtsa to set "reformed" cafe standards for cars along the lines of the reformed truck standards in which each manufacturer's cafe obligation is based on the specific mix of vehicles it sells; 3) calling for nhtsa to set car and truck standards such that the combined fleet of cars and trucks in the united states achieves a 35 mile per gallon ("mpg") industry average by model year 2020; 4) allowing manufacturers to trade credits among their cafe fleets; and 5) retaining cafe credits for the manufacture of flexible-fuel vehicles, but phasing them out by model year 2020. domestic passenger cars also are subject to a minimum fleet average of the greater of 27.5 mpg or 92% of nhtsa's projected fleet average fuel economy for domestic and imported passenger cars for that model year. in march 2009, nhtsa published a final rule setting cafe standards for the 2011 model year. pressure to increase cafe standards stems in part from concerns about the impact of carbon dioxide and other ghg emissions on the global climate. in 1999, a petition was filed with the epa requesting that it regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles under the clean air act. this is functionally equivalent to imposing fuel economy standards, because the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by a vehicle is directly proportional to the amount of fuel consumed. the epa denied the petition on the grounds that the clean air act does not authorize the epa to regulate ghg emissions because they did not constitute "air pollutants," and only nhtsa is authorized to regulate fuel economy under the cafe law. a number of states, cities, and environmental groups filed for review of the epa's decision. the matter was eventually brought before the u.s. supreme court, which ruled that ghgs did constitute "air pollutants" subject to regulation by the epa pursuant to the clean air act. upon taking office, the obama administration indicated its intention to promulgate rules to control mobile source ghg emissions. under the clean air act, epa must issue a determination that ghgs endanger the public health and welfare in order for epa to finalize ghg regulations for both mobile and stationary sources. in december 2009, epa issued its endangerment finding for ghgs. in early 2010, several industry groups filed a petition for review of the endangerment finding; nevertheless, epa is proceeding with rulemaking activity to regulate ghgs. as described more fully below, the obama administration has brokered an agreement in principle for a harmonized national program of mobile source fuel economy and ghg regulations for light-duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. this program includes new cafe standards for the 2012-2016 model years. to put this program in context, it is important to understand the ghg standards for light-duty vehicles promulgated by california and other states. u.s. requirements light duty vehicles california and other state standards. in 2004, pursuant to a law known as assembly bill 1493 ("ab 1493"), carb adopted california ghg emissions regulations applicable to 2009-2016 model-year cars and trucks. although adopted under california's authority to set vehicle emission standards, the practical effect of these regulations was to impose more stringent fuel economy standards than those set by nhtsa. pursuant to the clean air act, thirteen other states subsequently adopted california's ghg regulations for motor vehicles. in order for the states to enforce the ab 1493 rules, epa needed to issue a waiver of preemption under the clean air act. the prospect of state-by-state regulation of motor vehicle ghg emissions and fuel economy is very troubling to the automobile industry. the adoption of the ab 1493 rules created an unwieldy patchwork of state-by-state regulations, with a strong likelihood that there would need to be product restrictions in some states in order to comply. because the mix of vehicles sold varies from state to state, the potential need for product restrictions is much greater if compliance with fuel economy or ghg standards is based on state (or even regional) sales than if it is based on nationwide sales. 18 item 1. business (continued) u.s. requirements light duty vehicles "one national program" for model years 2012-2016. by early 2009, it had become apparent that the united states was headed toward a series of overlapping regulations aimed at motor vehicle fuel economy and ghgs. nhtsa was setting federal cafe standards, epa was planning to regulate motor vehicle ghg emissions at the federal level, and california and other states were getting set to impose stringent regulations on motor vehicle emissions at the state level if and when a clean air act waiver was granted. in order to avoid this confusing patchwork of regulations, president obama announced in may 2009 an agreement in principle among the automobile industry, the federal government, and the state of california concerning motor vehicle ghg emissions and fuel economy regulations. under the agreement in principle, california would enforce its existing ghg standards for the 2009-2011 model years, and defer to a set of federal standards for the 2012-2016 model years. with respect to the 2009-2011 model years, california agreed to modify its regulations so that: 1) manufacturers would be able to use federal test procedures to determine compliance with california's standards, and 2) compliance would be determined based on the fleet average emissions across all states that have adopted the california standards. with respect to the 2012-2016 model years, epa and nhtsa agreed to conduct joint rulemaking to establish ghg standards and fuel economy standards that align with each other. california agreed to modify its regulations to provide that compliance with the 2012-2016 federal requirements will constitute compliance with the california regulations for california and any states that have adopted california requirements. manufacturers also agreed to seek an immediate stay of pending litigation challenging epa's waiver decision and the right of states to issue motor vehicle ghg standards. assuming california and the federal government carried out their obligations under the agreement in principle, manufacturers agreed to dismiss the pending litigation. the agreement in principle now has been implemented. the epa issued a revised decision granting a clean air act waiver for california's ghg regulations. the automotive industry refrained from challenging that decision (although the waiver decision was challenged by the national automobile dealers association and the u.s. chamber of commerce, and that case is pending). carb adopted the modifications to its regulations necessary to implement the agreement in principle. most importantly, in may 2010 epa and nhtsa promulgated a joint rulemaking establishing harmonized ghg and fuel economy standards for the 2012-2016 model years. in response to these actions, the automobile industry sought and obtained dismissal of its federal court preemption litigation in california, vermont, and rhode island. the 2012-2016 federal ghg and fuel economy standards are very challenging. they require new light-duty vehicles to ramp up to an industry average fuel economy of approximately 35.5 mpg by the 2016 model year, which amounts to the steepest rate of increase in fuel economy standards since the inception of the cafe program. we believe that we will be able to comply with the california ghg standards for the 2009-2011 period, and the harmonized federal cafe/ghg standards for the 2012-2016 period, as a result of aggressive actions to improve fuel economy built into our cycle plan and through a variety of flexible compliance mechanisms. in contrast, we had projected that we would be unable to comply with the state ghg standards throughout the 2012-2016 period without undertaking costly product restrictions in so me states. key differences that enable us to project compliance with the national program include: 1) the new federal standards, although very stringent, do not increase rates as steeply as the state standards they are replacing; and 2) the national program allows us to determine compliance based on nationwide sales rather than state-by-state sales. the ability to average across the nation eliminates state-to-state sales variability and is a critical element for us and for the auto industry. the agreement in principle does not address what will happen in the 2017 model year and beyond. nhtsa and epa have indicated that they are planning to continue harmonizing the federal cafe and ghg standards in 2017 and beyond (although they are not required by law to do so). the agencies issued a joint notice of intent ("noi") in september 2010. the noi indicated that the agencies are considering standards that would require auto manufacturers to achieve annual fleet average ghg reductions of in the range of 3% to 6% per year for the 2017-2025 model years. at the upper end of the range, an annual reduction of 6% per year would equate to a fleet average fuel economy of approximately 62 mpg in the 2025 model year. this rate of fuel economy improvement is unprecedented, and cannot be ac hieved without a dramatic shift in consumer purchases away from conventional gasoline-powered vehicles and toward newer-technology vehicles such as hybrids, plug-in hybrids, and battery-electric vehicles. there is significant potential for consumer resistance to such a shift for reasons of cost, infrastructure limitations, vehicle characteristics (e.g., range, towing ability), and/or other factors. nhtsa and epa are expected to propose new standards within the 3% to 6% range by september 2011. meanwhile, california has indicated that it also will promulgate new state-level ghg standards for the 2017-2025 model years by september 2011. thus, there may be a return to conflicting state and federal regimes for regulating fuel economy and ghg emissions beginning 19 item 1. business (continued) with the 2017 model year. compliance with both of these regimes would at best add enormous complexity to our planning processes, and at worst could be virtually impossible. if either of these regulatory regimes impose and enforce extreme fuel economy or ghg standards, we likely would be forced to take various actions that could have substantial adverse effects on our sales volume and profits. such actions likely would include restricting offerings of selected engines and popular options; increasing market support programs for our most fuel-efficient cars and light trucks; and ultimately curtailing the production and sale of certain vehicles such as high-performance cars, utilities, and/or full-size light trucks, in order to maintain compliance. these actions might need to occur on a state-by-state basis, in response to the rules adopted by california and other states, or they may need to be taken at the national level if the federal standards are excessively stringent. therefore, we believe that for 2017 and beyond, it is essential to 1) maintain a single national program that regulates motor vehicle ghgs and fuel economy in a harmonized fashion, and 2) develop national fuel economy and ghg standards tha t are reasonable in light of consumer preferences, infrastructure limitations, and technology barriers. we will work toward legislative and regulatory solutions that would establish such a national program on a permanent basis. in 2006, california enacted a law known as assembly bill 32 ("ab 32") mandating that statewide ghg emissions be capped at 1990 levels by the year 2020, which would represent a significant reduction from current levels. it also requires the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions by all "significant" sources, and delegates authority to carb to develop and implement ghg emissions reduction measures. ab 32 also provides that carb must implement alternative measures to control mobile source ghg emissions if they do not achieve the emission reductions envisioned by ab 1493. the full ramifications of ab 32 are not clear, but it may lead to the imposition of additional regulations on the auto industry. u.s. requirements heavy duty vehicles federal standards. to date, fuel economy regulations have applied primarily to light-duty vehicles. energy legislation enacted in 2007 directed the national academy of sciences ("nas") to undertake a study of the fuel efficiency of heavy-duty vehicles (vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating over 8,500 pounds), and directed nhtsa to develop fuel efficiency regulations for such vehicles after the nas study was completed. separately, epa began work on the development of ghg standards for heavy-duty vehicles pursuant to the clean air act. in november 2010, nhtsa and epa issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking containing proposed fuel consumption and ghg standards for heavy-d uty vehicles commencing with the 2014 model year. the nhtsa fuel consumption standards would be voluntary in the 2014 and 2015 model years, since nhtsa does not have statutory authority to promulgate mandatory fuel consumption standards for heavy-duty vehicles until the 2016 model year. epa takes the position that its proposed ghg standards will be enforceable in the 2014 model year, although there are questions about whether this provides adequate lead time under the clean air act. the proposed standards would add a number of testing and certification burdens to the development of heavy-duty engines and vehicles (both complete and incomplete), as well as new warranty and in-use testing requirements, and new enforcement provisions that would impose penalties for noncompliance. the fuel consumption reductions necessary to comply with these proposed rules represent a significant new challenge for us and for other manufacturers of heavy-duty trucks. if the final standards are overly stringent or impose excessive regulatory burdens in other ways, it could adversely affect our ability to produce and sell heavy-duty trucks. we have commented on the proposed rules through the american automotive policy council (a trade association representing ford, general motors, and chrysler), and also through the engine manufacturers association. european requirements. in december 2008, the eu approved a regulation of passenger car carbon dioxide beginning in 2012 which limits the industry fleet average to a maximum of 130 g/km, using a sliding scale based on vehicle weight. this regulation provides different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight for its fleet of vehicles. limited credits are available for co 2 off-cycle actions ("eco-innovations"), certain alternative fuels, and vehicles with co 2 emissions below 50 g/km. for manufacturers failing to meet targets, a penalty system will apply with fees ranging per vehicle from 5 t o 95 per each g/km shortfall in the years 2012-18, and 95 for each g/km shortfall beginning in 2019. manufacturers would be permitted to use a pooling agreement between wholly-owned brands to share the burden. further pooling agreements between different manufacturers are also possible, although it is not clear that they will be of much practical benefit under the regulations. for 2020, an industry target of 95 g/km has been set. this target will be further detailed in a review in 2013. other non-eu european countries (such as switzerland, for example) are likely to follow with similar regulation. in separate legislation, so-called "complementary measures" have been mandated (for example, tire-related requirements) and more mandates are expected. these include requirements related to gearshift indicators, fuel economy indicators, and more-efficient low-co 2 mobile air conditioning systems. these proposals are likely to be finalized in 2011. the eu commission, council and parliament are close to formally approving a target for commercial light duty 20 item 1. business (continued) vehicles to be at an industry average of 175 g/km (with phase-in from 2014 2017), and 147 g/km in 2020. this regulation would also provide different targets for each manufacturer based on its respective average vehicle weight in its fleet of vehicles. the final mass and co 2 requirements for so-called multi-stage vehicles' (e.g., transit chassis cabs) are fully allocated to the base manufacturer (e.g., ford) so that the base manufacturer is fully responsible for the co 2 performance of the final up-fitted vehicles. the eu proposal also includes a penalty system, "super-credits" for vehicles below 50 g/km, and limited credits for co 2 off-cycle actions ( eco-innovations ), pooling, etc., similar to the passenger car co 2 regulation. some european countries have implemented or are still considering other initiatives for reducing co 2 emissions from motor vehicles, including fiscal measures and co 2 labeling. for example, the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, portugal, and the netherlands among others have introduced taxation based on carbon dioxide emissions. the eu co 2 requirements are likely to trigger further measures. other national requirements. the canadian federal government has regulated vehicle ghg emissions under the canadian environmental protection act, beginning with the 2011 model year. the standards track the new u.s. cafe standards for the 2011 model year and u.s. epa ghg regulations for 2012 through 2016 model years. in december 2009, quebec enacted province-specific regulations setting fleet average ghg standards for the 2010-2016 model years effective january 2010. although the announcement indicated that quebec's standards had been based on the california ab 1493 rules, there are a number of key differences. the quebec program defines vehicle fleets differently than either the u.s. federal government or california, does not apply attribute-based standards, does not allow for alternative means of compliance (e.g., industry credit for new and advanced technologies), and does not take into account the fact that california has altered its regulation to recognize u.s. federal compliance equivalents for the 2012 2016 model years. if a manufacturer fails to meet the required fleet average standard, the provincial government has established a formula to determine the level of non-compliance within the fleet and impose a fee. we have analyzed the regulations, and anticipate that some level of fees may be imposed under the regulations as written. quebec has published interpretation guidelines which clarify that the definition of vehicle fleets is intended to match california's, significantly reducing the potential for incurring fees under the regulation. now that the canadian federal regulation is in place, the quebec government has indicated that it will reevaluate the situati on and alter its approach if the federal requirements are satisfactory. some asian countries (such as china, japan, india, south korea, and taiwan) also have adopted fuel efficiency or labeling targets. for example, japan has fuel efficiency targets for 2015 which are even more stringent than the 2010 targets, with incentives for early adoption. china implemented second-stage fuel economy targets from 2008, and is working on the third stage for 2012 phase-in. all of these fuel efficiency targets will impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. in south america, brazil introduced a voluntary vehicle energy efficiency labelling program, indicating both emissions and fuel consumption rates for light vehicles with spark ignition engine. chile also will adopt a fuel-consumption and emissions-labelling system. in general, fuel efficiency targets may impact the cost of technology of our models in the future. chemical regulation and substance restrictions u.s. requirements. several states are considering moving beyond a substance-by-substance approach to managing substances of concern, and are moving towards adopting green chemistry legislation that give state governments broad regulatory authority to determine, prioritize, and manage toxic substances. in 2008, california became the first state to enact a broad "green chemistry" program, which will be implemented beginning in 2011. initial regulatory proposals by the california department of toxic substance control ("dtsc") raised substantial concerns about burdensome requirements to restrict, ban, and/or label a multitude of substances, which in turn could compel changes in motor vehicle components and add complexity to our manufacturing and product planning activities. in november 2010, the dtsc issued a revised set of proposal rules for implementing the green chemistry program. this new proposal addressed many of the auto industry's concerns about the program, although some issues remain. the alliance of automobile manufacturers has filed comments on the revised proposal. other states, such as maine, are considering so-called "product stewardship" bills that would require sellers of products to establish elaborate plans, approved by the state agency, to address life-cycle impacts of each product. these programs would impose extensive reporting and auditing requirements, along with penalties for non-compliance. if enacted, compliance with such legislation would be costly and resource-intensive. 21 item 1. business (continued) european requirements. the commission has implemented its regulatory framework for a single system to register, evaluate, and authorize the use of chemicals with a production volume above one ton per year ("reach"). the rules took effect on june 1, 2007, with a preparatory period through june 1, 2008 followed by a six-month registration phase. compliance with the legislation is likely to be administratively burdensome for all entities in the supply chain, and research and development resources may be redirected from "market-driven" to "reach-driven" activities. we and our suppliers have registered those chemicals that were identified to fall within this requirement. the regulation also will accelerate restri ction or banning of certain chemicals and materials, which could increase the costs of certain products and processes used to manufacture vehicles and parts. we are implementing and ensuring compliance within ford and our suppliers through a common strategy together with the global automotive industry. the european end-of-life vehicle directive and eu battery directive prohibit the use of the heavy metals lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and mercury with limited exceptions that are regularly scrutinized. these regulations also include broad manufacturer responsibility for disposing of vehicle parts and substances, including taking vehicles back without charge for disposal and recycling requirements. this legislation has triggered similar regulatory actions around the globe, including, for example, in china, korea, and possibly india in the near future. other european regulatory developments will ban the use of refrigerants with a "global warming potential" higher than 150 on the european scale (which would include the refrigerant commonly in use) beginning in 2011 in new vehicle models and in 20 17 for all new vehicles, which some other governments, such as japan, have been closely monitoring and are likely to adopt in some form. this european restriction is expected to lead to a general change in refrigerants for future vehicles worldwide. regulations requiring a globally-harmonized system of classification and labeling of chemicals also took effect in january 2009. this regulation is the implementation of the un regulation un-ghs, and should harmonize the classification and labeling of chemicals worldwide with impact on existing storage facilities and labeling. pollution control costs during the period 2011 through 2015, we expect to spend about $200 million on our facilities in the americas and europe to comply with stationary source air and water pollution and hazardous waste control standards that are now in effect or are scheduled to come into effect during this period. of this total, we currently estimate we will spend between $30 million and $40 million in each of 2011 and 2012. specific environmental expenses are difficult to isolate because expenditures may be made for more than one purpose, making precise classification difficult. employment data the approximate number of individuals employed by us and entities that we consolidated as of december 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in thousands): 201 0 2009* automotive ford north america 75 71 ford south america 15 15 ford europe 49 49 ford asia pacific africa 18 15 volvo 19 financial services ford credit 7 8 total 164 177 * data reflect retrospective application of the accounting standard for consolidation of variable interest entities ("vies"). the year-over-year decrease in employment primarily reflects completion of the sale of volvo, as well as ford credit global personnel-reduction programs, offset partially by increases in north america and asia pacific africa largely to support increased production. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the united states, approximately 99% of these unionized hourly employees in our automotive sector are represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america ("uaw" or "united auto workers"). approximately two percent of our u.s. 22 item 1. business (continued) salaried employees are represented by unions. most hourly employees and many non-management salaried employees of our subsidiaries outside of the united states also are represented by unions. we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with the uaw, and the national automobile, aerospace, transportation and general workers union of canada ("caw"). in 2007, we negotiated with the uaw a transformational agreement, enabling us to improve our competitiveness and establishing a voluntary employee benefit association ("veba") trust ("uaw veba trust") to fund our retiree health care obligations. we completed prepayment in full of our obligation to the uaw veba trust during 2010; see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion of the prepayment of this obligation. in march 2009, ford-uaw membership ratified modifications to the existing collective bargaining agreement that significantly improved our competitiveness, saving us up to $500 million annually and bringing us near to competitive parity with the u.s. operations of foreign-owned automakers. the operational changes affected wage and benefit provisions, productivity, job security programs, and capacity actions, allowing us to increase manufacturing efficiency and flexibility. on november 1, 2009, the caw announced that a majority of its members employed by ford canada had voted to ratify modifications to the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreement between ford canada and the caw. the modifications are patterned off of the modifications agreed to by the caw for its agreements with the canadian operations of general motors and chrysler and are expected to result in annual cost savings. the agreement also confirmed the end of production at the st. thomas assembly plant in 2011. on november 2, 2009, the uaw announced that a majority of its members employed by ford had voted against ratification of a tentative agreement that would have further modified the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreement between ford and the uaw. these latest modifications were designed to closely match the modified collective bargaining agreements between the uaw and our domestic competitors, general motors and chrysler. among the proposed modifications was a provision that would have precluded any strike action relating to improvements in wages and benefits during the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement upon expiration of the current agreement, and would have subjected disputes regarding improvements in wages and benefits to binding a rbitration, to determine competitiveness based on wages and benefits paid by other automotive manufacturers operating in the united states. even with recent modifications, our agreements with the uaw and caw provide for guaranteed wage and benefit levels for the term of the respective agreements, and a degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses during the terms of the agreements. our collective bargaining agreement with the uaw expires on september 14, 2011; our collective bargaining agreement with the caw expires on september 14, 2012. in 2010, we negotiated new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, brazil, france, germany, mexico, russia, taiwan and venezuela. in addition to the united states, in 2011 we negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions in argentina, brazil, britain, france, mexico, new zealand, romania, russia, taiwan and thailand. engineering, research and development we engage in engineering, research and development primarily to improve the performance (including fuel efficiency), safety, and customer satisfaction of our products, and to develop new products. we maintain extensive engineering, research and design centers for these purposes, including large centers in dearborn, michigan; dunton, england; and aachen and merkenich, germany. most of our engineering, research and development relates to our automotive sector. we recorded $5 billion, $4.7 billion, and $7.1 billion of engineering, research, and development costs that we sponsored during 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively (pre-2010 data adjusted to reflect the impact of the accounting standard on consolidation of vies). the significant decrease in costs in recent years primarily reflects efficiencies in our global processes and the non-recurrence of costs related to our former volvo operations in 2010 and to our former jaguar land rover operations in 2009. research and development costs sponsored by third parties during 2010 were not material. 23 item 1a. risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors. beginning in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and severe recession, putting significant pressure on ford and the automotive industry generally. these economic conditions dramatically reduced industry sales volume in the united states and europe, in particular, and began to slow growth in other markets around the world. in the united states, industry sales volume declined from 16.5 million units in 2007, to 13.5 million units in 2008 and to 10.6 million units in 2009, before rebounding slightly to 11.8 million units in 2010. for the 19 markets we track in europe, industry sales volume declined fro m 18 million units in 2007, to 16.6 million units in 2008, 15.9 million units in 2009 and 15.3 million units in 2010. because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and profitability. if industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumptions, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially adversely affected. for discussion of economic trends, see the "overview" section of item 7. decline in market share or failure to achieve growth. between 1995 and 2008, our full-year u.s. market share declined each year; from 2004 to 2008, our u.s. market share declined from 18% to 14.2%. with our one ford plan, we have seen u.s. market share gains in 2009 and 2010. to maintain competitive economies of scale and grow our global market share, however, we also must grow our market share in fast-growing emerging markets, particularly in asia pacific, as well as maintain or grow market share in mature markets. our market share in certain growing markets, such as china, is substantially lower than it is in our mature markets. a decline in our market share in mature markets or failure to achieve growth in emerging market could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles, many factors both within and outside of our control affect the success of new or existing products in the marketplace. offering highly desirable vehicles that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but vehicles that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks. for example, if a new model were to experience quality issues at the time of launch, the vehicle's perceived quality could be aff ected even after the issues had been corrected, resulting in lower sales volumes, market share, and profitability. an increase in or acceleration of market shift beyond our current planning assumptions from sales of trucks, medium- and large-sized utilities, or other more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states. trucks and medium- and large-sized utilities historically have represented some of our most profitable vehicle segments, and the segments in which we have had our highest market share. in the 2005 2008 period, the general shift in consumer preferences in the u.s. market away from medium- and large-sized utilities and trucks adversely affected our overall market share and profitability. although we now have a more balanced portfolio of small, medium, and large, cars, utilities, and trucks, a shift in consumer pr eferences away from more profitable vehicle sales at levels greater than our current planning assumption whether because of fuel prices, declines in the construction industry, governmental actions or incentives, or other reasons could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. an increase in fuel prices, continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel . an increase in fuel prices, as well as continued price volatility or reduced availability of fuel, particularly in the united states, could result in further weakening of demand for relatively more-profitable medium and large cars, utilities, and trucks, while increasing demand for relatively less-profitable small vehicles. continuation or acceleration of such a trend beyond our current planning assumption, or volatility in demand for these segments, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 item 1a. risk factors (continued) continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors. the global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand. according to the january 2011 report issued by ihs automotive, the global automotive industry is estimated to have had excess capacity of 17 million units in 2010. industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, particularly in the european and u.s. markets. a continuation or increase in excess capacity could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. adverse effects from the bankruptcy, insolvency, or government-funded restructuring of, change in ownership or control of, or alliances entered into by a major competitor. prior to the government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic competitors general motors and chrysler, each of the domestic automakers had substantial "legacy" costs (principally related to employee benefits), as well as a substantial amount of debt. these conditions historically had put each of us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign competitors who began manufacturing in the united states more recently. the government-funded bankruptcy of our domestic competitors has allowed them to eliminate or substantially reduce contractual obligations, including signi ficant amounts of debt, and avoid other liabilities. the elimination or reduction of these obligations, combined with the benefits attendant to restructuring brands and dealer networks as well as access to low-cost government funding, could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. as a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. in addi tion, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. as a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see item 7a for additional discussion of currency, commodity price and interest rate risks. economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions. our industry is highly interdependent, with broad overlap of supplier and dealer networks among manufacturers, such that the uncontrolled bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor or major suppliers could threaten our supplier or dealer network and thus pose a threat to us as well. even in the absence of such an event, our supply base has experienced increased economic distress due to the sudden and substantial drop in industry sales volumes in recent years that affected all manufacturers.&# 160; dramatically lower industry sales volume made existing debt obligations and fixed cost levels difficult for many suppliers to manage. these factors increased pressure on the supply base, and, as a result, suppliers were not only less willing to reduce prices, but some requested direct or indirect price increases, as well as new and shorter payment terms. in addition, in the past we have taken and may continue to take actions to provide financial assistance to certain suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials and components. suppliers also exited certain lines of business or closed facilities, which results in additional costs associated with transitioning to new suppliers. in addition, as industry volume improves with the general economic recovery, suppliers that downsized significantly during the economic downturn may face capacity constraints as demand recovers that could cause temporary shortages of supplies or components. single-source supply of components or materials. many components used in our vehicles are available only from a single supplier and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and new contractual commitments that may be required by another supplier in order to provide the components or materials. in addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to a component. 25 item 1a. risk factors (continued) labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure. substantially all of the hourly employees in our automotive operations in the united states and canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated a new agreement with the uaw in 2007 and with the caw in 2008 which expire in september 2011 and september 2012, respectively. although these transformational agreements were amended during 2009 to bring us much of the way to parity with our competitors, the agreements still provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout their terms and a degree of employment security, subject to certain conditions. as a practical matter, these agreements restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses. additionally, rejection by ford-uaw membership of further modifications to the collective bargaining agreement in late 2009 (i.e., rejection of a proposed "no strike" clause and binding arbitration provision), which were agreed to with our domestic competitors, may put us at a disadvantage during the next round of labor negotiations; see "employment data" in "item 1. business" ("item 1") for additional discussion. a substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom in these regions promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to close manufacturing or other facilities. work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of production. a work stoppage or other interruption of production could occur at ford or supplier facilities as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, supplier financial distress, production constraints, or other reasons. for example, many suppliers experienced financial distress due to decreasing production volume and increasing prices for raw materials during 2008 and 2009, jeopardizing their ability to produce parts for us. now, because of the restructuring that took place in the supply base during that period, as production volume increases suppliers may experience capacity constraints. a work stoppage or interruption of production at ford or supplier facilities due to labor disputes, shortages of supplies, or any other reason (including but not limited to tight credit markets or other financial distress, natural or man-made disasters, information technology issues, or production constraints or difficulties) could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition. we have qualified defined benefit retirement plans in the united states that cover our hourly and salaried employees. we also provide pension benefits to non-u.s. employees and retirees, primarily in europe. in addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits for retired employees, primarily health care and life insurance benefits. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information about these plans, including funded status. these benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us that are not fully funded and will require additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity. our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are subject to title iv of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ("erisa"). under title iv of erisa, the pension benefit guaranty corporation ("pbgc") has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. one such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the pbgc. although we believe that it is not likely that the pbgc would terminate any of our plans, in the event that our u.s. pension plans were terminated at a time when the liabilities of the plans exceeded the assets of the plans, we would incur a liability to the pbgc that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. as of december 31, 2010, our u.s. and worldwide defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $6.7 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. in addition, if our operating results and available cash were insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our pension or postretirement health care and life insurance obligations. we might not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and any proceeds might not be adequate to meet any pension and postretirement health care or life insurance obligations then due. 26 item 1a. risk factors (continued) worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns). the measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present values of projected future payments to all participants. we use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates). to the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and result of operations. for discussion of our assumptions, see "critical accounting estimates" in item 7 and note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change." section 382 of the u.s. internal revenue code restricts the ability of a corporation that undergoes an ownership change to use its tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax credits ("tax attributes"). at december 31, 2010 we had tax attributes that would offset $20 billion of taxable income (representing about $7 billion of our $15.7 billion in deferred tax assets subject to valuation allowance). an ownership change occurs if 5 percent shareholders of an issuer's outstanding common stock, collectively, increase their ownership percentage by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. restructuring actions w e took in 2009, including our exchange of ford common stock for convertible debt and our public issuance of additional ford common stock, contributed significantly to the collective increase in ownership by 5 percent shareholders. at present, 5 percent shareholders may have collectively increased their ownership in ford by more than 25 percentage points. in september 2009, we implemented a tax benefit preservation plan (the "plan") to reduce the risk of an ownership change under section 382. under the plan, shares held by any person who acquires, without the approval of our board of directors, beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of ford's outstanding common stock could be subject to significant dilution. the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs. meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet government-mandated emissions and fuel-economy standards. government safety standards also require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or a noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles prior to the start of production, the launch of such vehicle could be delayed until such defect is remedied. the costs associated with any protracted delay in new model launches necessary to remedy such defect, or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that have been sold, could be substantial. further, adverse publicity surrounding actual or alleged safety-related or other defects could damage our reputation and adversely affect sales of our products. increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions. the worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of governmental regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country. governmental regulation has arisen, and proposals for additional regulation are advanced, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about the possibility of global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence. in addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements as a means of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing their balance of paymen ts. in recent years, we have made significant changes to our product cycle plan to improve the overall fuel economy of vehicles we produce, thereby reducing their ghg emissions. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix, willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, and the human, engineering and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. the cost to comply with existing governmental regulations is substantial, and future, additional regulations (already enacted, adopted or proposed) could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. for more discussion of the impact of such standards on our global business, see the "governmental standards" discussion in item 1 above. 27 item 1a. risk factors (continued) unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise. we spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards. compliance with governmental standards, however, does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. in certain circumstances, courts permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal law and/or other applicable law. furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, may require significant expenditures of time and other resources. litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results. in addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation of a defect, regulatory violation or other matter (with or without corresponding litigation or governmental investigation) may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on sales of our products. a change in our requirements where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts). we have entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require us to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used in the production of our vehicles. if our need for any of these parts were to lessen, we could still be required to purchase a specified quantity of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to the take-or-pay contract. adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments. we receive economic benefits from national, state and local governments in various regions of the world in the form of incentives designed to encourage manufacturers to establish, maintain or increase investment, workforce or production. these incentives may take various forms, including grants, loan subsidies, and tax abatements or credits. the impact of these incentives can be significant in a particular market during a reporting period. for example, most of our manufacturing facilities in south america are located in brazil, where the state or federal governments have historically offered, and continue to offer, significant incentives to manufacturers to encourage capital investment, increase manufacturing production, and create jobs. as a result, the performance of our south american operations has been impacted favorably by government incentives to a substantial extent as we have increased our investment and manufacturing presence in brazil, and we expect this favorable impact to continue for the next several years. a decrease in, expiration without renewal of, or other cessation or clawback of government incentives for any of our business units, as a result of administrative decision or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to fund new investments. see note 2 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of the accounting for government incentives, and "item 3. legal proceedings" for discussion of administrative tax proceedings in brazil. adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events. we conduct business in countries around the world, and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of emerging and newly-developed markets. these activities expose us to, among other things, risks associated with geo-political events, such as: governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities; disruption of operations in a particular country as a result of political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities; or acts of terrorism. such events could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of opera tions. inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets. our internal control over financial reporting and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements or loss of assets because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement accuracy and safeguarding of assets. 28 item 1a. risk factors (continued) substantial levels of automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations. although we reduced automotive debt significantly in 2010, we remain highly leveraged as we work to improve our balance sheet. our significant automotive debt could have important consequences, including the following: we must pay interest on our significant indebtedness, which may reduce funds available to us for operations and other purposes to levels below that of our competitors with lower interest costs; and our level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. for further information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, including our secured credit agreement established in december 2006 ("credit agreement"), see the discussion in item 7 under the captions "liquidity and capital resources" and "overview," and in note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities. as permitted under our credit agreement, we have repaid $6.7 billion under our revolving credit facility, which we can re-borrow until the facility terminates. if the financial institutions that provide these or other committed credit facilities were to default on their obligation to fund the commitments, these facilities would not be available to us, which could substantially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. for discussion of our credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets. in the event of a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets, ford credit would consider reducing the amount of receivables it purchases or originates. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits, and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. to the extent ford credit's ability to provide wholesale financing to our dealers or retail financing to those dealers' customers is limited, ford's ability to sell vehicles could be adversely affected. inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors. in 2005 and 2006, the credit ratings assigned to ford credit were lowered to below investment grade, which increased its unsecured borrowing costs and restricted its access to the unsecured debt markets. in response, ford credit increased its use of securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and other sources of funding. in 2010, although ford credit experienced several credit rating upgrades and its credit spreads narrowed considerably, its credit ratings are still below investment grade. ford credit's higher credit ratings have provided it more economical access to the unsecured debt markets, but it is still utilizing asset-backed securitization transactions for a substantial amount of its funding. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs and certain other asset-backed securitization transactions is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as ford credit's ability to obtain appropriate credit ratings and, for certain committed programs, derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or other factors, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates because of funding constraints. in addition, ford credit may reduce the amount of receivables it purchases or originates if there were a significant decline in the demand for the types of securities it offers or ford cre dit was unable to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk associated with its securitization transactions. a significant reduction in the amount of receivables ford credit purchases or originates would significantly reduce its ongoing profits and could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. higher-than-expected credit losses. credit risk is the possibility of loss from a customer's or dealer's failure to make payments according to contract terms. credit risk (which is heavily dependent upon economic factors including unemployment, consumer debt service burden, personal income growth, dealer profitability, and used car prices) has a significant impact on ford credit's business. the level of credit losses ford credit may experience could exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. for additional discussion regarding credit losses, see the "critical accounting estimates" disclosures in item 7. 29 item 1a. risk factors (continued) increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles. no single company is a dominant force in the automotive finance industry. most of ford credit's bank competitors in the united states use credit aggregation systems that permit dealers to send, through standardized systems, retail credit applications to multiple finance sources to evaluate financing options offered by these finance sources. this process has resulted in greater competition based on financing rates. in addition, ford credit may face increased competition on wholesale financing for ford dealers. competition from such competitors with lower borrowing costs may increas e, which could adversely affect ford credit's profitability and the volume of its business. collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases. after ford credit purchases retail installment sale contracts and leases from dealers and other customers, it manages or services the receivables. any disruption of its servicing activity, due to inability to access or accurately maintain customer account records or otherwise, could have a significant negative impact on its ability to collect on those receivables and/or satisfy its customers. lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles. ford credit projects expected residual values (including residual value support payments from ford) and return volumes of the vehicles it leases. actual proceeds realized by ford credit upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction. among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions, and the quality or perceived quality, safety, fuel efficiency, or reliability of the vehicles. a ctual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. all of these factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect ford credit's profitability. for additional discussion of residual values, see the "critical accounting estimates" disclosures in item 7. imposition of additional costs or restrictions due to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ("act") and its implementing rules and regulations. the act was enacted on july 21, 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitizations. the act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the consumer finance industry and the capital markets, including certain commercial transactions such as derivatives contracts. among other things, the act creates a consumer financial protection bureau with broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that will regulate consumer finance businesses, such as ford credit' retail automotive financing business in the united states. the act also creates an alternative liquidation framework under which the federal deposit insurance corporation ("fdic") may be appointed as receiver of a non-bank financial company if the u.s. treasury secretary (in consultation with the president of the united states) determines that it is in default or danger of default and the resolution of the company under other applicable law (e.g., u.s. bankruptcy law) would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the united states. the fdic's powers under this framework may vary from those of a bankruptcy court under u.s. bankruptcy law, which could adversely impact securitization markets, including ford credit's funding activities, regardless of whether ford credit ever is determined to be subject to the act's alternative liquidation framework. in addition, the act provides that a finance company could be designated a "significant non-bank financial company" by the financial stability oversight council and thus be subject to regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system. such a designation would mean that a non-bank finance company such as ford credit, in effect, could be regulated like a bank with respect to capital and other requirements, but without the benefits of being a bank such as the ability to offer fdic-insured deposits. further, the act prohibits the use of credit ratings in a prospectus (which is required to be included for securitization offerings such as those conducted by us) without the consent of the rating agency. the rating agencies have indicated they will not consent to such inclusion . the sec has provided indefinite relief from this requirement for public offerings of asset-backed securities through a no-action letter. without such relief, the public securitization markets would be impaired in the united states. federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations necessary to implement the act, and, consequently, the effects of the act on the capital markets and the consumer finance industry may not be known for months or years. the act and its implementing rules and regulations could impose additional costs on ford credit and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. 30 item 1a. risk factors (continued) new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions. as a finance company, ford credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates. in the united states, its operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act, and fair credit reporting act. in some countries outside the united states, ford credit's subsidiaries are regulated banking institutions and are required, among other things, to maintain minimum capit al reserves. in many other locations, governmental authorities require companies to have licenses in order to conduct financing businesses. efforts to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs on ford credit, and affect the conduct of its business. additional regulation could add significant cost or operational constraints that might impair its profitability. inability of ford credit to obtain competitive funding . other institutions that provide automotive financing to certain of our competitors have access to relatively low-cost government-insured or other funding. for example, financial institutions with bank holding company status may have access to other lower cost sources of funding. access by our competitors' dealers and customers to financing provided by financial institutions with relatively low-cost funding that is not available to ford credit could adversely affect ford credit's ability to support the sale of ford vehicles at competitive cost and rates. this in turn would adversely affect the marketability of f ord vehicles in comparison to certain competitive brands. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none to report. item 2. properties our principal properties include manufacturing and assembly facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, sales or administrative offices, and engineering centers. we own substantially all of our u.s. manufacturing and assembly facilities, although many of these properties have been pledged to secure indebtedness or other obligations. our facilities are situated in various sections of the country and include assembly plants, engine plants, casting plants, metal stamping plants, transmission plants, and other component plants. about half of our distribution centers are leased (we own approximately 48% of the total square footage and lease the balance). a substantial amount of our warehousing is provided by third-party providers under service contracts. because the facilities provided pursuant to third-party service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, these spaces are not included in the number of distribution centers/w arehouses listed in the table below. the majority of the warehouses that we operate are leased, although many of our manufacturing and assembly facilities contain some warehousing space. substantially all of our sales offices are leased space. approximately 99% of the total square footage of our engineering centers and our supplementary research and development space is owned by us. many of the facilities, as well as most of the machinery and equipment, that we own and operate in the united states have been pledged to secure our obligations under the credit agreement. for discussion of the credit agreement, see "liquidity and capital resources" in item 7 and note 19 of the notes to the financial statements. in addition, we maintain and operate manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, parts distribution centers, and engineering centers outside of the united states. we own substantially all of our non-u.s. manufacturing plants, assembly facilities, and engineering centers. the majority of our parts distribution centers outside of the united states are either leased or provided by vendors under service contracts. as in the united states, space provided by vendors under service contracts need not be dedicated exclusively or even primarily to our use, and is not included in the number of distribution centers/warehouses listed in the table below. 31 item 2. properties (continued) the total number of plants, distribution centers/warehouses, engineering and research and development sites, and sales offices used by our automotive segments as of december 31, 2010 are shown in the table below: segment plants distribution centers/ warehouses engineering, research/ development sales offices ford north america 38 * 30 45 58 ford south america 8 3 1 8 ford europe 15 7 4 24 ford asia pacific africa 12 1 7 16 total 73 41 57 1 0 6 * we have announced plans to close a number of north american facilities as part of our restructuring actions; facilities that have been closed to date are not included in the table. the table includes five facilities operated by automotive components holdings, llc ("ach"), which is controlled by us. we have been working to sell or close the majority of the 15 ach component manufacturing plants; to date, we have sold five ach plants and closed another five. we plan to close a sixth plant in 2011. we are exploring our options for the remaining ach plants (milan, saline, sandusky and sheldon road), and intend to transition these businesses to the supply base as soon as practicable. included in the number of plants shown above are several plants that are not operated directly by us, but rather by consolidated joint ventures that operate plants that support our automotive sector. the accounting standard related to the consolidation of variable interest entities that became effective as of january 1, 2010 resulted in the deconsolidation of many of our consolidated joint ventures. as of december 31, 2010, the significant consolidated joint ventures and the number of plants each owns is as follows: cologne precision forge gmbh ("cpf") a 50/50 joint venture of ford-werke gmbh ("ford") and neumayer tekfor holding gmbh ("neumayer") to which ford transferred the operations of its cologne forge plant in 2003. the joint venture produces forged components, primarily for transmissions and chassis, for use in ford vehicles and for sale to third parties. those ford employees who worked at the cologne forge plant at the time of the formation of the joint venture were assigned to cpf and remain our employees, and cpf reimburses us for the cost of these employees. in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, which operates this one plant, ford employees assigned to the venture may return to ford. new workers at cpf are hired as employees of the joint venture. on december 21, 2010, ford and neumaye r signed an agreement pursuant to which neumayer will withdraw from the joint venture. the agreement provides that neumayer will sell its shares in the joint venture to ford, and describes the future business relationship between the parties. the agreement becomes effective at closing, which is expected to take place in the first quarter of 2011, and at that point cpf will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ford. ford lio ho motor company ltd. ("flh") a joint venture in taiwan among ford (70% partner), the lio ho group (25% partner) and individual shareholders (5% ownership in aggregate) that assembles a variety of ford and mazda vehicles sourced from ford as well as mazda. in addition to domestic assembly, flh also has local product development capability to modify vehicle designs for local needs, and imports ford-brand built-up vehicles from europe and the united states. this joint venture operates one plant. ford vietnam limited a joint venture between ford (75% partner) and song cong diesel limited company (25% partner). ford vietnam limited assembles and distributes several ford vehicles in vietnam, including escape, everest, fiesta, focus, mondeo, ranger, and transit models. this joint venture operates one plant. in addition to the plants that we operate directly or that are operated by consolidated joint ventures, additional plants that support our automotive sector are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which we are a partner. these plants are not included in the number of plants shown in the table above. the most significant of these joint ventures are: autoalliance international, inc. ("aai") a 50/50 joint venture with mazda that operates as its principal business an automobile assembly plant in flat rock, michigan. aai currently produces the mazda6 and ford mustang models. ford supplies all of the hourly and substantially all of the salaried labor requirements to aai, and aai reimburses ford for the full cost of that labor. autoalliance (thailand) co. ltd. ("aat") a joint venture among ford (50%), mazda (45%) and a thai affiliate of mazda's (5%) that owns and operates a manufacturing plant in rayong, thailand. aat produces the ford everest suv and ford ranger and mazda bt-50 pickup trucks for the thai market and for export to over 100 countries worldwide (other than north america), in both built-up and kit form. aat has completed construction of 32 item 2. properties (continued) its new, highly flexible car plant using state-of-the-art manufacturing technologies to produce both the ford fiesta and mazda2 small cars for domestic and export sale. blue diamond truck, s. de r.l. de c.v. ("blue diamond truck") a joint venture between ford (25% partner) and navistar international corporation (formerly known as international truck and engine corporation) (75% partner) ("navistar"). blue diamond truck develops and manufactures selected medium and light commercial trucks in mexico and sells the vehicles to ford and navistar for their own independent distribution. blue diamond truck manufactures ford f-650/750 medium-duty commercial trucks that are sold in the united states and canada and navistar trucks that are sold in mexico. changan ford mazda automobile corporation, ltd. ("cfma") a joint venture among ford (35% partner), mazda (15% partner), and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. ("changan") (50% partner). through its facility in the chinese cities of chongqing and nanjing, cfma produces and distributes in china the ford mondeo, focus, s-max and fiesta, the mazda2, the mazda3, the volvo s40 and the volvo s80. changan ford mazda engine company, ltd. ("cfme") a joint venture among ford (25% partner), mazda (25% partner), and the chongqing changan automobile co., ltd (50% partner). cfme is located in nanjing, and produces the ford new i4 and mazda bz engines in support of the assembly of ford- and mazda-branded vehicles manufactured in china. ford otosan a joint venture in turkey between ford (41% partner), the koc group of turkey (41% partner), and public investors (18%) that is a major supplier of the ford transit connect vehicle and our sole distributor of ford vehicles in turkey. in addition, ford otosan makes the ford transit series and the cargo truck for the turkish and export markets, and certain engines and transmissions, most of which are under license. this joint venture owns and operates two plants, a parts distribution depot, and a product development center in turkey. getrag ford transmissions gmbh ("getrag ford") a 50/50 joint venture with getrag deutsche venture gmbh and co. kg, a german company, to which we transferred our european manual transmission operations, including plants, from halewood, england; cologne, germany; and bordeaux, france. in 2008, we added the kechnec plant in slovakia. getrag ford produces manual transmissions for ford europe and volvo. we currently supply most of the hourly and salaried labor requirements of the operations transferred to this joint venture. our employees who worked at the manual transmission operations transferred at the time of formation of the joint venture are assigned to the joint venture. in the event of surplus labor at the joint venture, our employees ass igned to getrag ford may return to ford. getrag ford reimburses us for the full cost of the hourly and salaried labor we supply. employees not supplied by us to work in these operations are employed directly by getrag ford. this joint venture operates four plants. jiangling motors corporation, ltd. ("jmc") a publicly-traded company in china with ford (30% shareholder) and jiangxi jiangling holdings, ltd. (41% shareholder) as its controlling shareholders. jiangxi jiangling holdings, ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture between chongqing changan automobile co., ltd. and jiangling motors company group. the public investors of jmc own 29% of its outstanding shares. jmc assembles the ford transit van and other non-ford-technology-based vehicles for distribution in china. tenedora nemak, s.a. de c.v. a joint venture between ford (6.75% partner) and a subsidiary of mexican conglomerate alfa s.a. de c.v. (93.25% partner), which owns and operates, among other facilities, a portion of our former canadian castings operations, and supplies engine blocks and heads to several of our engine plants. ford supplies a portion of the hourly labor requirements for the canadian plant, for which it is fully reimbursed by the joint venture. the facilities owned or leased by us or our subsidiaries and joint ventures described above are, in the opinion of management, suitable and more than adequate for the manufacture and assembly of our products. the furniture, equipment and other physical property owned by our financial services operations are not material in relation to their total assets. 33 item 3. legal proceedings the litigation process is subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual litigated matters is not predictable with assurance. see note 31 of the notes to the financial statements for discussion of loss contingencies. following is a discussion of our significant pending legal proceedings: asbestos matters asbestos was used in some brakes, clutches, and other automotive components from the early 1900s. along with other vehicle manufacturers, we have been the target of asbestos litigation and, as a result, are a defendant in various actions for injuries claimed to have resulted from alleged exposure to ford parts and other products containing asbestos. plaintiffs in these personal injury cases allege various health problems as a result of asbestos exposure, either from component parts found in older vehicles, insulation or other asbestos products in our facilities, or asbestos aboard our former maritime fleet. we believe that we are being more aggressively targeted in asbestos suits because many previously targeted companies have filed for bankruptcy. most of the asbestos litigation we face involves individuals who claim to have worked on the brakes of our vehicles over the years. we are prepared to defend these cases, and believe that the scientific evidence confirms our long-standing position that there is no increased risk of asbestos-related disease as a result of exposure to the type of asbestos formerly used in the brakes on our vehicles. the extent of our financial exposure to asbestos litigation remains very difficult to estimate and could include both compensatory and punitive damage awards. the majority of our asbestos cases do not specify a dollar amount for damages; in many of the other cases the dollar amount specified is the jurisdictional minimum, and the vast majority of these cases involve multiple defendants with the number in so me cases exceeding one hundred. many of these cases also involve multiple plaintiffs, and often we are unable to tell from the pleadings which plaintiffs are making claims against us (as opposed to other defendants). annual payout and defense costs may become substantial in the future. environmental matters we have received notices under various federal and state environmental laws that we (along with others) are or may be a potentially responsible party for the costs associated with remediating numerous hazardous substance storage, recycling, or disposal sites in many states and, in some instances, for natural resource damages. we also may have been a generator of hazardous substances at a number of other sites. the amount of any such costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could be significant. following are individual environmental legal proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party and in which there is the possibility of monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000: edison assembly plant concrete disposal. during demolition of our edison assembly plant, we discovered very low levels of contaminants in the concrete slab. the concrete was crushed and reused by several developers as fill material at ten different off-site locations. the new jersey department of environmental protection ("dep") asserts that some of these locations may not have been authorized to receive the waste. in 2006, dep ordered ford, supplier mig-alberici, inc., and developer edgewood properties, inc., to investigate, and, if appropriate, remove contaminated materials. we have substantially completed the work at a number of locations, and edgewood is completing the investigation and remediation at several loca tions that it owns. we resolved the matter with dep through an administrative consent order ("order"), pursuant to which we paid approximately $460,000 for oversight costs, penalties, and environmental education projects and donated emissions reduction credits to the state of new jersey. after reviewing comments submitted by edgewood, dep finalized the order in 2009. edgewood appealed issuance of the order to the appellate division of the new jersey superior court. 34 item 3. legal proceedings (continued) class actions in light of the fact that very few of the purported class actions filed against us in the past ever have been certified by the courts as class actions, the actions listed below are those (i) that have been certified as a class action by a court of competent jurisdiction (and any additional purported class actions that raise allegations substantially similar to a certified case), and (ii) that, if resolved unfavorably to the company, would likely involve a significant cost. canadian export antitrust class actions. eighty-three purported class actions on behalf of all purchasers of new motor vehicles in the united states since january 1, 2001 have been filed in various state and federal courts against numerous defendants, including ford. the federal and state complaints allege, among other things, that vehicle manufacturers, aided by dealer associations, conspired to prevent the sale to u.s. citizens of vehicles produced for the canadian market and sold by dealers in canada at lower prices than vehicles sold in the united states. the complaints seek injunctive relief under federal antitrust law and treble damages under federal and state antitrust laws. the federal court actions were consolidated for coordinat ed pretrial proceedings in the u.s. district court for the district of maine and have been dismissed. cases remain pending in state courts in arizona, california, florida, new mexico, tennessee and wisconsin. a statewide class has been certified in the california case. medium/heavy truck sales procedure class action . this action pending in ohio state court alleges that ford breached its sales and service agreement with ford truck dealers by failing to publish to all ford dealers all price concessions that were approved for any dealer. the court certified a nationwide class consisting of all ford dealers who purchased from ford any 600-series or higher truck from 1987 to 1997 and granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on liability. our motion to decertify the class is pending. during february 2011, a jury awarded $4.5 million in damages to the named plaintiff dealer. we will appeal. if similarly calculated amounts are awarded to other class members, total damages could be substantial. other matters erisa fiduciary litigation. a purported class action suit filed in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan named ford and several current or former employees and officers as defendants ( nowak, et al. v. ford motor company, et al. , along with three consolidated cases). the suit alleged that defendants violated erisa by failing to prudently and loyally manage funds held in employee savings plans we sponsored. specifically, plaintiffs alleged (among other claims) that the defendants violated fiduciary duties owed to plan participants by continuing to offer ford common stock as an investment option in the savings plans. on february 15, 2011, the court approved a final settlement of this matter pursuant to which we will enhance communications to active participants in our employee savings and investment plans, make related improvements to the employee investment process, and pay attorney fees and related costs. apartheid litigation. along with two other prominent multinational companies, we are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits seeking unspecified damages on behalf of south african citizens who suffered violence and oppression under south africa's apartheid regime. the lawsuits allege that the defendant companies aided and abetted the apartheid regime and its human rights violations. these cases, collectively referred to as in re south african apartheid litigation , were initially filed in 2002 and 2003, and are being handled together as coordinated "multidistrict litigation" in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. the district court dismissed these cases in 2004, but in 2007 the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit reversed and remanded the cases to the district court for further proceedings. amended complaints were filed during 2008; motions to dismiss have been granted in part and denied in part, and defendants' appeal to the u.s. court of appeals is pending. brazilian tax matters . in december 2010, a tax tribunal in brazil ruled against ford brazil in a matter involving an assessment relating to federal tax incentives ford brazil received during 2004 through 2008. the matter at issue concerns the extent to which tax incentives and a special tax regime can be used simultaneously. we intend to appeal the december ruling to the next administrative level within the brazilian federal tax authority, and believe the law supports our position. if we do not prevail at the next administrative level, we plan to appeal the matter to the federal court in brazil, which likely would require posting of substantial cash or other collateral. administrative proceedings also are pending against ford b razil regarding state tax incentives. these incentives are being challenged by two states on the basis that the incentives granted by another state did not receive formal approval from the organization of brazilian state treasury offices. if we do not prevail at the administrative level, we plan to appeal to the relevant state court, which likely also would require posting of significant cash or other collateral. 35 item 4a. executive officers of ford our executive officers are as follows, along with each executive officer's position and age at february 1, 2011: name position position held since age william clay ford, jr. (a) executive chairman and chairman of the board sept . 2006 53 alan mulally (b) president and chief executive officer sept . 2006 65 michael e. bannister executive vice president chairman and chief executive officer, ford motor credit co. oct . 2007 61 lewis w. k. booth executive vice president and chief financial officer nov . 2008 62 mark fields executive vice president president, the americas oct . 2005 50 john fleming executive vice president global manufacturing and labor affairs dec. 2009 60 tony brown group vice president purchasing apr . 2008 54 susan m. cischke group vice president sustainability, environment and safety engineering apr. 2008 56 james d. farley, jr. group vice president global marketing, sales and service nov . 2007 48 felicia fields group vice president human resources and corporate services apr. 2008 45 bennie fowler group vice president quality apr. 2008 54 joseph r. hinrichs group vice president president, asia pacific and africa dec . 2009 44 derrick m. kuzak group vice president global product development dec . 2006 59 david g. leitch group vice president and general counsel apr. 2005 50 j c. mays group vice president and chief creative officer design aug . 2003 56 stephen t. odell group vice president, chairman and ceo, ford of europe aug. 2010 55 ziad s. ojakli group vice president government and community relations jan . 2004 43 nick smither group vice president information technology apr . 2008 52 bob shanks vice president and controller sept . 2009 58 (a) also a director, chair of the office of the chairman and chief executive, chair of the finance committee and a member of the sustainability committee of the board of directors. (b) also a director and member of the office of the chairman and chief executive and the finance committee of the board of directors. with the exceptions noted below, each of the officers listed above has been employed by ford or its subsidiaries in one or more capacities during the past five years. described below are the recent positions (other than those with ford or its subsidiaries) held by those officers who have not yet been with ford or its subsidiaries for five years: prior to joining ford in september 2006, mr. mulally served as executive vice president of the boeing company, and president and chief executive officer of boeing commercial airplanes. mr. mulally also was a member of boeing's executive council, and served as boeing's senior executive in the pacific northwest. he was named boeing's president of commercial airplanes in september 1998; the responsibility of chief executive officer for the business unit was added in march 2001. prior to joining ford in november 2007, mr. farley was group vice president and general manager of lexus, responsible for all sales, marketing and customer satisfaction activities for toyota's luxury brand. before leading lexus, he served as group vice president of toyota division marketing and was responsible for all toyota division market planning, advertising, merchandising, sales promotion, incentives and internet activities. under our by-laws, executive officers are elected by the board of directors at an annual meeting of the board held for this purpose. each officer is elected to hold office until a successor is chosen or as otherwise provided in the by-laws. 36 part ii item 5. market for ford's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange in the united states and on certain stock exchanges in belgium, france, switzerland, and the united kingdom. the table below shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock and the dividends we paid per share of common and class b stock for each quarterly period in 2009 and 2010: 2009 201 0 ford common stock price per share (a) first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter high $ 2.99 $ 6.54 $ 8.86 $ 10.37 $ 14.54 $ 14.57 $ 13.24 $ 17.42 low 1.50 2.40 5.24 6.61 10.05 9.75 10.02 12.12 dividends per share of ford common and class b stock (b) $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 (a) new york stock exchange composite intraday prices as listed in the price history database available at www.nysenet.com. (b) under our credit agreement, which is scheduled to terminate in december 2013, we are prohibited from paying dividends (other than dividends payable solely in stock) on our common and class b stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding the credit agreement and related covenants. as of february 14, 2011, stockholders of record of ford included 162,254 holders of common stock (which number does not include 804 former holders of old ford common stock who have not yet tendered their shares pursuant to our recapitalization, known as the value enhancement plan, which became effective on august 9, 2000) and 85 holders of class b stock. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we purchased shares of our common stock as follows: period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (b) maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (b) oct. 1, 2010 through oct. 31, 201 0 $ nov. 1, 2010 through nov. 30, 201 0 58,882 16.28 dec. 1, 2010 through dec. 31, 201 0 50,469 16.73 total/average 109,351 16.48 (a) we presently have no publicly-announced repurchase program in place. shares were acquired from our employees or directors in accordance with our various compensation plans as a result of share withholdings to pay: (i) income tax related to the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock or the issuance of unrestricted stock ; and (ii) the exercise price with respect to certain exercises of stock options. (b) no publicly announced repurchase program in place. 37 item 6. selected financial data on january 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard regarding consolidation of vies. we have applied the standard retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and present prior-year financial statement data on a basis that is revised for the application of this standard. the following table sets forth selected financial data for each of the last five years (dollar amounts in millions, except for per share amounts). summary of operations 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 total company sales and revenues $ 128,954 $ 116,283 $ 143,584 $ 168,884 $ 156,711 income/(loss) before income taxes $ 7,149 $ 2,599 $ (14,895 ) $ (4,286 ) $ (15,490 ) provision for/(benefit from) income taxes 592 (113 ) (62 ) (1,467 ) (2,880 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 6,557 2,712 (14,833 ) (2,819 ) (12,610 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 5 9 41 16 income/(loss) before cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles 6,557 2,717 (14,824 ) (2,778 ) (12,594 ) cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles (7 ) net income/(loss) 6,557 2,717 (14,824 ) (2,778 ) (12,601 ) less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (4 ) (58 ) 17 16 net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company $ 6,561 $ 2,717 $ (14,766 ) $ (2,795 ) $ (12,617 ) automotive sector sales $ 119,280 $ 103,868 $ 127,635 $ 152,691 $ 141,727 operating income/(loss) 5,789 (3,352 ) (9,976 ) (4,979 ) (18,518 ) income/(loss) before income taxes 4,146 785 (12,314 ) (5,510 ) (17,456 ) financial services sector revenues $ 9,674 $ 12,415 $ 15,949 $ 16,193 $ 14,984 income/(loss) before income taxes 3,003 1,814 (2,581 ) 1,224 1,966 amounts per share attributable to ford motor company common and class b stock basic: income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.90 $ 0.91 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.43 ) $ (6.73 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 0.01 cumulative effects of change in accounting principles net income/(loss) $ 1.90 $ 0.91 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.41 ) $ (6.72 ) diluted: income/(loss) from continuing operations $ 1.66 $ 0.86 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.43 ) $ (6.73 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 0.01 cumulative effects of change in accounting principles net income/(loss) $ 1.66 $ 0.86 $ (6.50 ) $ (1.41 ) $ (6.72 ) cash dividends $ $ $ $ $ 0.25 common stock price range (nyse composite intraday) high $ 17.42 $ 10.37 $ 8.79 $ 9.70 $ 9.48 low 9.75 1.50 1.01 6.65 6.06 average number of shares of ford common and class b stock ou tstanding (in millions) 3,449 2,992 2,273 1,979 1,879 sector balance sheet data at year-end assets automotive sector $ 64,606 $ 79,118 $ 71,556 $ 115,484 $ 120,198 financial services sector 103,270 119,112 151,667 169,261 169,691 intersector elimination (2,083 ) (3,224 ) (2,535 ) (2,023 ) (1,467 ) total assets $ 165,793 $ 195,006 $ 220,688 $ 282,722 $ 288,422 debt automotive sector $ 19,077 $ 33,610 $ 23,319 $ 24,190 $ 26,906 financial services sector 85,112 98,671 128,842 141,833 142,036 intersector elimination * (201 ) (646 ) (492 ) total debt $ 103,988 $ 131,635 $ 151,669 $ 166,023 $ 168,942 total equity/(deficit) $ (642 ) $ (7,782 ) $ (15,371 ) $ 7,771 $ (1,235 ) * debt related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities; see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for additional detail. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview revenue our automotive sector's revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts and accessories to our dealers and distributors (i.e., our customers). vehicles we produce generally are subject to firm orders from our customers. the vehicles generally are deemed sold, and revenue recognized, when produced and shipped or delivered to our customers. this is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, or vehicles produced for use in our own fleet (including management evaluation vehicles). vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. w hen we sell the returned vehicle at auction, we recognize a gain or loss on the difference, if any, between actual auction value and the projected auction value. in addition, revenue for finished vehicles we sell to customers or vehicle modifiers on consignment is not recognized until the vehicle is sold to the ultimate customer. most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by ford credit. upon ford credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer's purchase of a vehicle, ford credit pays cash to the relevant legal entity in our automotive sector in payment of the dealer's obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. the dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to ford credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer. our financial services sector's revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. also, revenue from operating leases, net of certain deferred origination costs, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses. transactions between our automotive and financial services sectors occur in the ordinary course of business. for example, we offer special retail and lease incentives to dealers' customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from ford credit. the estimated cost for these incentives is recorded as revenue reduction to automotive sales at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. in order to compensate ford credit for the lower interest or lease rates offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to ford credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer's customer. &#16 0;ford credit recognizes the amount over the life of the related contracts as an element of financing revenue. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions and payments between our automotive and financial services sectors. costs and expenses our statement of operations classifies our automotive total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative and other expenses. we include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts and accessories. specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, product recall and customer satisfaction program costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. we include within selling, administrative and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. in our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons, and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). as we have seen in recent years, annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. we analyze these cost changes in the following categories: material excluding commodity costs primarily reflecting the change in cost of purchased parts used in the assembly of our vehicles. commodity costs reflecting the change in cost for raw materials (such as steel, aluminum, and resins) used in the manufacture of our products. structural costs reflecting the change in costs that generally do not have a directly proportionate relationship to our production volumes, such as labor costs, including pension and health care; other costs related to the development and manufacture of our vehicles; depreciation and amortization; and advertising and sales promotion costs. warranty and other costs reflecting the change in cost related to warranty coverage, product recalls, and customer satisfaction actions, as well as the change in freight and other costs related to the distribution of our vehicles and support for the sale and distribution of parts and accessories. while material (including commodity), freight and warranty costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. we also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. for example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. on the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases. other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, are not nec essarily impacted by production volume. our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. we consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. for example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume and grow our market share. automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2010 was $113.5 billion (including about $8 billion related to volvo). material costs (including commodity costs) make up the largest portion of our automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2010 about two-thirds of the total amount. of the remaining balance of our automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs. although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. key economic factors and trends affecting the automotive industry global economic recovery. by mid-2009, the global economy had begun to recover from the financial crisis and economic recession that began in 2008 and was entering a period of improving economic activity, with some markets advancing more quickly than others. in the united states, the economic recovery began in june 2009, as officially designated by the national bureau of economic research. in 2010, global economic growth advanced an estimated 3.8%, a significant improvement as compared to the weak conditions which prevailed in 2008 and the first half of 2009. the current economic performance in many european countries, particularly greece, ireland, portugal and spain, is being hampered by excessive government debt levels and the resulting budget austerity measures which are contributing to weak economic growth. the european union, the european central bank, and the international monetary fund have provided important support for many of these countries undergoing structural changes. during 2011, economic growth is likely to be weak in these markets. at the same time, economic growth in germany is likely to remain solid, attributable in part to its export growth to asia, good manufacturing base, and better budgetary conditions. the u.k. government has implemented budget cuts, while the housing market is still working off its slump. these factors will continue to be a drag on economic conditions there. while the economic outlook is improving, it is rebounding from a very low base and with a range of possible outcomes due to the uncertain financial market environment and dependence upon ongoing policy responses. the consumer and commercial sectors of the global economy appear to be improving, although recovery remains fragile due to continuing tightness in the credit markets, weak labor markets in many countries, and uncertainty regarding fiscal and monetary policy adjustments. although the housing market is stabilizing in the worst hit markets, such as the united states, the united kingdom, and spain, challenges remain associated with rising foreclosure rates and excess housing stocks. 40 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2010, global industry vehicle sales volume (including medium and heavy truck) is estimated to have increased to 73.9 million units, up 8.7 million units or 13% from 2009 levels. excess capacity. according to ihs automotive, an automotive research firm, in 2010 the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles (about 89 million units) exceeded global production of light vehicles by about 17 million units. in north america and europe, the two regions where the majority of revenue and profits are earned in the industry, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 34% and 18%, respectively. according to production capacity data projected by ihs automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 20 million units per year during the 2011-2015 period. pricing pressure. excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers' ability to increase prices. in addition to incremental new manufacturing capacity being added in the united states and europe, japanese and korean manufacturers also have capacity (located outside of the regions) directed to these markets. this has contributed and likely will continue to contribute to pricing pressure in these markets. in the future, chinese manufacturers also are expected to enter the u.s. and european markets, further intensifying competition. although there has been some firming of pricing in the u.s. market, particularly in 2010, it seems likely that over the longer term intense competition and apparent excess capacity will continue the industry trend of reduction of inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the united states and contribute to a challenging pricing environment. commodity and energy price increases. commodity prices have resumed upward movement since early 2009. despite weak demand conditions, oil prices increased from an average of $62 per barrel in 2009 to a range exceeding $90 per barrel in february 2011. with the global economic outlook improving and financial investment returning to commodity and oil markets, we expect commodity and oil prices to continue trending upward with potentially higher volatility. higher fuel prices, combined with efforts to achieve environmental policy objectives, are likely to continue to generate demand for more fuel-efficient vehicles. consumer spending and credit. limited ability to increase vehicle prices has been offset in recent years, at least in part, by the long-term trend toward purchase of higher-end, more expensive vehicles and/or vehicles with more features. over the long term, spending on new vehicles is expected to resume correlation with growth in per capita incomes. emerging markets also will contribute an increasing share of global industry sales volume and revenue, as growth in wholesales (i.e., volume) will be greatest in emerging markets in the next decade. we believe, however, the mature automotive markets (e.g., north america, western europe, and japan) will retain the largest share of global revenue over the coming decade. increasing sales of smaller vehicles . like other manufacturers, we are increasing our participation in newly-developed and emerging markets, such as brazil, russia, india and china, in which vehicle sales are expected to increase at a faster rate than in most mature markets. the largest segments in these markets are small vehicles (i.e., sub-b, b and c segments). to increase our participation in these fast-growing markets, we are increasing significantly our production capacity, directly or through joint ventures. in addition, we expect that increased demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles will continue in the mature markets of north america and europe and, consequently, we have seen and expect in the future strong demand in those markets for our small car offerings (incl uding the new ford fiesta and focus models that are based on our global platforms). although we expect positive contribution margins from higher small vehicle sales, one result of increased production of small vehicles may be that, over time, our average per unit margin decreases because small vehicles tend to have lower margins than medium and large vehicles. currency exchange rate volatility. ongoing deleveraging in financial markets has generated significant volatility in currencies. the sovereign debt crisis and banking sector weakness in europe is contributing to euro exchange rate volatility. at the same time, concerns for u.s. monetary policy (e.g., quantitative easing programs) and deficits (i.e., current account and fiscal deficits) have put downward pressure on the u.s. dollar. some emerging market currencies have strengthened beyond their fair value in light of substantial capital inflows. central banks in some of these markets are attempting to temper the effect of these inflows and stabilize their currencies so they are not overvalued. the latest rising i nflation in emerging markets has started to erode the strength of some local currencies, reducing the need for government intervention. to varying degrees, exchange rates are market determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors. in the current business environment, it is likely exchange rates will remain volatile. other economic factors. the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, could drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period. 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) trends and strategies we remain firm in our belief that our continued focus on executing the four key priorities of our one ford plan is the right strategy to achieve our objectives: aggressively restructure to operate profitably at the current demand and changing model mix; accelerate development of new products our customers want and value; finance our plan and improve our balance sheet; and work together effectively as one team, leveraging our global assets. despite the external economic environment in recent years, we have made significant progress in transforming our business. aggressively restructure to operate profitably brands. in recent years, we have eliminated a number of brands from our portfolio in order to devote fully our financial, product development, production and marketing, and sales and services resources toward further growing our core ford brand and enhancing lincoln. we have sold aston martin, jaguar and land rover, and most recently volvo. in addition to completing the sale of volvo in the third quarter of 2010, we discontinued the mercury brand at the end of 2010. we also reduced our stake in mazda to 3.5 percent from 11 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. all of these actions allow us to increase flexibility as we continue to pursue growth in key emerging markets, while also continuing our cooperation in areas of mutual b enefit, such as key joint ventures and exchange of technology information. manufacturing. we are committed to maintaining an appropriate manufacturing footprint in markets around the world, both in the more mature markets in which we have an established presence, and in fast-growing emerging markets. we also are committed to ensuring that our assembly plants have flexible body shops that allow us to respond quickly to changing consumer demands. we have announced substantial investments in emerging markets over the last few years, including in china and india, to increase our production capacity with flexible new manufacturing plants. we also announced substantial investments in north america, including efforts to ensure that nearly all of our u.s. assembly plants have flexible body shops by 2012. we also have converted two north american assembly plants, and are converting a third assembly plant, from production of large utilities and trucks to small car production to support the increasing demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. suppliers . we continue to work to strengthen our global supply base. as part of this process, we have been reducing the global number of production suppliers eligible for new product sourcing from 3,300 in 2004 to about 1,600 suppliers in 2009 and about 1,500 suppliers in 2010. to date, we have identified specific plans that will take us to about 850 suppliers in the near- to mid-term, with a further reduction to about 750 suppliers targeted. we believe that our efforts at consolidation will result in a stronger and healthier supply base, with which we are working closely to anticipate and address any near-term capacity constraints as we ramp up production. in addition, our move to global vehicle platforms should increase our a bility to source to common suppliers for the total global volume of vehicle components, so that a smaller number of suppliers will receive a greater volume of purchases we make to support our global vehicle platforms. ford and lincoln dealerships . our dealers are a source of strength in north america and around the world, especially in rural areas and small towns where they represent the face of ford to the community. we are adding dealerships rapidly in markets in our asia pacific africa region where industry volume is growing at a rapid pace, including the addition of 100 dealerships in china during 2010. our total dealership network in china is about 340, and about 170 dealerships in india, and we have plans to continue our expansion of these networks. we also continue to work with our dealers in the united states to rightsize the number of ford and lincoln outlets, particularly in our largest 130 metropolitan market areas. reduction of o vercapacity includes not only rightsizing the number of dealerships, but ensuring the right locations and appropriate branded facilities to satisfy current and future demand. our goal is to achieve a sustainable and profitable dealer network. as part of these efforts, we have reduced the number of outlets in our u.s. ford and lincoln network in the united states from about 4,400 at the end of 2005 to 3,430 at the end of 2010. as announced, we discontinued the mercury brand as of december 31, 2010, and we have successfully resolved mercury franchise agreements for 96% of mercury franchise holders. 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) product development. our one ford global product development system is fully operationalized, utilizing global platforms to deliver customer-focused programs rapidly and efficiently across multiple markets. through our hub and spoke approach, one lead product development engineering center the hub is assigned for each global vehicle line, thereby ensuring global scale and efficiency through common designs, parts, suppliers, and manufacturing processes. the hubs are supported by regional engineering centers spokes which also help deliver products tuned to local market customer preferences while maintaining global design dna. typical delivery metrics for global programs include 80% part commonality, greater t han 75% pre-sourcing to global suppliers, and 100% common manufacturing and assembly process. for example, by 2012, we expect to produce more than two million units annually utilizing our ford c1-platform. the north american volume leveraging for focus on the c1-platform improves from 200,000 to 850,000 units annually. platform flexibility, efficiency and development speed is evident through 10 unique c-segment vehicles launching globally within the next two years, including focus, c-max and escape/kuga derivatives. the efficiency and flexibility gains enabled by our one ford plan will allow us to refresh all regional showrooms approximately one and a half times over the 2010-2014 period. ford credit. during 2010, ford credit reduced its worldwide staffing by about 1,000 positions to improve cost structure in response to lower automotive industry sales volumes and the discontinuation of financing for jaguar, land rover, mazda, and volvo. this was in addition to the elimination of about 2,000 worldwide positions during 2009. accelerate development of new products our customers want and value we are committed to introducing new products that consumers want and value, and we are receiving very positive reactions from consumers, media, and independent evaluators in response to the products we have introduced in recent years. we plan to build on this strength in 2011. our global product strategy is to serve our key geographic markets with a complete family of small, medium and large, cars, utilities and trucks that have best-in-class design and quality, are environmentally responsible, and contain high-value safety and smart feature content. the result of this strategy is a full-line of vehicles that: have bold, emotive exterior designs are great to drive are great to sit in (with the comfort and convenience of a second home on wheels and exceptional quietness) provide fuel economy as a reason to buy are unmistakably a ford or lincoln in look, sound and feel provide exceptional value we are committed to delivering the freshest showroom in all regions with benchmark efficiency. developing products our customers want and value demands consistent focus on the four pillars of our global product strategy drive quality, drive green, drive safe, and drive smart. drive quality. we have made significant improvements in quality through a renewed commitment that touches every aspect of the vehicle process from design to manufacturing to product launch so that quality is designed and built into every vehicle. these efforts have paid off with best-in-class initial quality in the united states according to internal and external quality surveys. we have established a global set of disciplined, standardized processes aimed at making us the world's leader in automotive quality. through our global product strategy and a single global management team, we are leveraging our assets, implementing best practices and a systematic approach to quality, and utilizing common components for the advantage of scale. the new integrated approach can be seen in the new fiesta, our first of this generation of global cars under our one ford plan. selling one high-volume version of this vehicle helps us reduce defects and improve overall craftsmanship. in north america, europe, and asia we will launch our all-new c-cars in 2011 that will compare very favorably to competitive models with respect to attributes such as wind noise, steering feel, ride and handl ing, braking response, door closing sensation, performance feel and seat comfort. in the 2010 j.d. power apeal survey, which measures the emotional quality of vehicles, attributes and surprise and delight features, ford improved to second among brands in north america. moreover, in j.d. power's 2010 initial quality survey, which measures things-gone-wrong per 100 vehicles during the first three months in service, ford, with a score of 93, was the only full-line vehicle manufacturer that ranked in the top five. no other volume manufacturer is delivering both emotional and rational quality in line with the industry's best. our global quality strategy also is delivering improved owner satisfaction and loyalty, lower warranty costs, higher lease residual values, and continued improvement in long-term reliability. 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) drive green . our commitment to sustainability focuses both on advancing conventional vehicle technology that touches millions of new vehicles each year while at the same time developing next-generation propulsion systems that represent an important part of the long-term future for the industry. we remain committed to our goal to deliver leadership or among the best fuel efficiency in every major new vehicle launch. for example, the 2011 ford explorer is the most fuel-efficient mid-size suv in the market. the implementation of our new ecoboost family of gasoline engines is well underway and a major part of our sustainability strategy, delivering both exceptional fuel economy and performance. by combining direct fuel-injection and turbo charging, the ecoboost engine can deliver up to 20% better fuel economy and up to 15% fewer co 2 emissions versus larger-displacement engines, without sacrificing driving performance. the 3.5-liter v6 engine was introduced in 2009 and is now available in the lincoln mks and mkt, the ford taurus sho and flex as well as the recently launched 2011 f-150. the 3.5-liter ecoboost was joined in 2010 by the 2.0-liter i4 ecoboost which launched in europe with the ford galaxy, s-max, and mondeo and the 1.6-liter i4 ecoboost which launched in europe in the ford focus, mondeo, c-max, s-max, and galaxy. the 2.0-liter mondeo was also the first ecoboost introduction in china. in 2011, the 2.0l ecoboost will make its north american debut in the ford explorer and edge. additionally, in australia the 1.6l ecoboost will be introduced in the focus. we will continue to migrate ecoboost technology aggressively across our product lineup in all regions. for instance, by 2013, 90% of ford's north american nameplates will offer ecoboost engines, and global annual production of ecoboost vehicles is expected to reach 1.5 million units. in the asia pacific africa region, ecoboost along with other innovative global technologies such as powershift transmissions is a major part of our plan to deliver fuel efficiency improvement by up to 20% across our product lineup by 2012. and in australia, we will introduce an advanced liquid-injection petroleum gas ("lpg") system for the ford falcon in 2011, providing customers with the most advanced lpg technology on the market. our european econetic range of ultra-low co 2 diesel models across small to mid-size car and commercial vehicle segments continues to build on the success started with the 2008 focus econetic. in 2009, we launched the second-generation focus econetic with further advanced technology including stop-start capability to reduce co 2 emissions to 99 g/km, and the fiesta econetic launched in 2010 at 98 g/km. we also are pursuing an aggressive electrified vehicle strategy that we call power of choice. we are electrifying existing, traditional vehicle lines, rather than creating a specific electrified vehicle model. this will enable us to offer a broad portfolio of electrified vehicles. with power of choice, customers will be able to choose a variety of electrified powertrains, including: hybrid electric vehicles -- powered in part by a battery and in part by an internal combustion engine, depending on driving conditions, with onboard charging of the battery (e.g., ford fusion and escape hybrids and lincoln mkz hybrid currently available in north america). plug-in hybrid electric vehicles similar to a hybrid vehicle, but with a larger battery to provide more electric power in more driving conditions, with the battery capable of being charged externally (e.g., ford c-max energi to be launched in north america and europe in 2012 and 2013, respectively) battery electric vehicle powered solely by battery, with no internal combustion engine, with the battery charged externally (e.g., ford transit connect bev launched in north america in 2010 and to be launched in europe in 2011 and ford focus electric bev to be launched in north america in late 2011 and in europe in 2012). we continue to engage in a number of collaborative agreements to address the many challenges that remain for electrified transportation including battery development, component standardization, cost, electric infrastructure, and connectivity to the national power grid. drive safe . we are building on our record of having the most u.s. government 5-star rated vehicles by expanding both advanced crash protection and crash avoidance technology. we are strengthening our safety leadership by focusing on three key areas addressing driver behavior , enhancing crash protection even more , and pioneering the next frontier of safety with driver-assist crash-avoidance technologies. for example, we introduced mykey to help parents encourage their teenagers to drive more safely and more fuel efficiently, and to increase safety belt usage. mykey which debuted on the 2010 ford focus and has quickly become standard on most ford and lincoln models allows owners to program a key that can limit the vehicle's top speed and audio volume. 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) we also offer a new advanced crash-avoidance technology collision warning with brake support on several ford and lincoln vehicles including ford taurus, edge, explorer and lincoln mks, mkt, mkx. this feature uses radar to monitor traffic directly ahead and warns the driver with an authoritative beep and a red warning light projected on the windshield if a collision threat occurs. the all-new 2011 ford explorer debuted the auto industry's first-ever production use of inflatable seat belts, designed to provide additional protection for rear-seat occupants often children and older passengers who can be more vulnerable to head, chest and neck injuries. we plan to offer inflatable seat belt technology on other vehicles globally. other global driver-assist features such as blind spot information system , active park assist and adaptive cruise control have enjoyed strong customer demand and expanded vehicle applications. and we have begun offering the next suite of new safety features and driver assistance technologies in europe speed limiter, torque vectoring control, lane departure warning, lane keeping aid, active city stop , traffic sign recognition system, driver alert, all-seat beltminder and power child locks. many of these safety features are being introduced in the c-max, grand c-max, focus, mondeo, s-max and galaxy. drive smart. we earned our third consecutive invitation to keynote the international consumer electronics show, confirming the company's place among the world's leading electronics and technology innovators. at the 2011 show, our president and chief executive officer alan mulally introduced the ford focus bev discussed above and ford's entry into the growing smart phone-to-vehicle connectivity movement with myford mobile . myford mobile will provide bev customers with unprecedented levels of mobile access to important elements of the bev ownership experience like charge status, range, and route planning and convenience features like remote locking and unlocking of doors. last year, at the 2010 show we introduced myford touch& #8482; and the next-generation of sync that has redefined the in-car experience with a simpler, safer and smarter way to connect drivers with available technology and their digital lives. myford touch and mylincoln touch present a holistic approach to accessing and personalizing vehicle settings and functions using a mix of graphic, touch, and voice user interfaces. myford touch was recognized with cnet's "best of ces" and popular mechanics' "editor's choice" awards. building upon our demonstrated strategy to democratize globally our technology investments, sync and myford touch will be launched in europe in the focus and c-max. these migrations continue a history of global feature rollouts that includes blind spot information system, ambient lighting, intelligent entry with push button start, and active park assist. ford also is leading the way in leveraging the growing consumer trend of smartphone apps with an innovative approach to control the applications through sync. our applink application programming interface brings popular apps such as pandora internet radio, stitcher "smart" radio and the twitter client openbeak into the vehicle. these technologies not only provide greater connectivity to vehicle occupants, but importantly also help mitigate driver distraction risks by using the safer means of voice commands to control functions and programs. leveraging key new technologies across the four strategy pillars in multiple regions on global programs drives tremendous scale and efficiency savings that can be re-invested allowing ford to have the freshest showroom in the industry. in 2010, we launched 24 new or redesigned vehicles in key markets around the world, including: for north america the redesigned ford explorer, edge, the new fiesta and the redesigned lincoln mkx and the mkz hybrid; for europe, the redesigned ford c-max and new grand c-max; and for india, the new ford figo. in 2011, we plan a number of additional global product launches. our product strategy ensures a single global product cycle plan, simultaneously delivering global product programs across regions, with clearly defined product "dna" while efficiently leveraging our global resources. this approach leads to a reduced number of vehicle platforms and parts, as well as simplified vehicle ordering from the customer's perspective. for example, we have reduced the number of global nameplates from 97 in 2006 to 59 in 2008 to 38 in 2010, with further reductions planned. the number of vehicle platforms will be reduced from 27 in 2007 to 13 in 2014, with production on strategic core platforms increasing from 29% in 2007 to at least 80% in 2013 and beyond. we will have common small and medium-sized ford vehicles in north america, south america, europe and asia pacific africa by 2013. this will include fiesta- and focus-sized small cars and utilities, fusion- and mondeo-sized mid-size cars and utilities, compact pick-ups, and commercial vans. for example, in 2012, we expect to produce more than two million vehicles annually from our global c platform (focus-sized) and, by 2015, two million vehicles annually from our global b platform (fiesta-sized). 45 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) leveraging global product programs has helped increase overall product development efficiency by a projected 66% between 2006 and 2012. global programs that continue to offer bold, emotive designs, high levels of quality, fuel economy leadership, top safety ratings, innovative technologies, and greater feature content than higher-series competitive offerings also will allow us to reduce brand discounts and increase revenue across our portfolio. this overall combination of cost efficiency and revenue enhancement that is being realized from one ford and our global product strategy will help us continue to profitably grow. finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet as discussed in more detail in "liquidity and capital resources" below, during 2010 we generated positive automotive operating-related cash flow of $4.4 billion. this contributed to our ability to reduce automotive debt by $14.5 billion in 2010, from a total of $33.6 billion at the end of 2009 to $19.1 billion at the end of 2010. even with our substantial debt reduction actions in 2010, shown in the table below, we were able to maintain a significant level of automotive gross cash (i.e., cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities) and ended 2010 with automotive gross cash exceeding total automotive debt by $1.4 billion, also as shown in the table below (in billions): december 31, 2010 september 30, 2010 december 31, 2009 automotive gross cash $ 20.5 $ 23.8 $ 24.9 less debt: revolving line of credit 0.8 2.5 7.5 veba debt 3.6 7.0 unsecured convertible notes 0.7 2.6 2.6 term loan 4.1 4.9 5.3 all other debt 13.5 12.8 11.2 total debt 19.1 26.4 33.6 net cash/(debt) $ 1.4 $ (2.6 ) $ (8.7 ) we believe that our stable management team, our strong supplier and dealer relationships, the positive acceptance of our products by customers, and our full pipeline of new products allow us to compete effectively in the global vehicle markets while we reduce our debt. work together effectively as one team as part of the one team approach, we have implemented a disciplined business plan process to regularly review our business environment, risks and opportunities, strategy, and plan, and to identify areas of our plan that need special attention while pursuing opportunities to improve our plan. everyone is included and contributes, openness is encouraged, our leaders are responsible and accountable, we use facts and data to make our decisions, high performance teamwork is a performance criteria and we follow this process every week, every month, and every quarter, driving continuous improvement. we believe this process gives us a clear picture of our business in real time and the ability to respond quickly and decisively to new issues and changing conditions as we have done in the face of rapid changes in the market and business environment in the last few years. in addition, we are partnering with and enlisting all of our stakeholders to help us execute our plan to deal with our business realities and create an exciting and viable ford business going forward. we are reaching out and listening to customers, dealers, employees, the uaw, suppliers, investors, communities, retirees, and federal, state and local governments. each of these constituencies is a critical part of the success of our business going forward. realizing our goal of profitable growth for all is as important to these stakeholders as it is to our shareholders. 46 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) results of operations on january 1, 2010, we adopted the new accounting standard regarding consolidation of vies. we have applied the standard retrospectively to periods covered in this report, and present prior-year financial statement data on a basis that is revised for the application of this standard. full-year 2010 results of operations our worldwide net income attributable to ford motor company was $6.6 billion or $1.66 per share of common and class b stock in 2010, an improvement of $3.9 billion from net income attributable to ford motor company of $2.7 billion or $0.86 per share of common and class b stock in 2009 . results by business sector are shown below (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 (a) income/(loss) before income taxes automotive sector $ 4,146 $ 785 $ (12,314 ) financial services sector 3,003 1,814 (2,581 ) total company 7,149 2,599 (14,895 ) provision for/(benefit from) income taxes (b) 592 (113 ) (62 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 6,557 2,712 (14,833 ) income/(loss) from discontinued operations 5 9 net income/(loss) 6,557 2,717 (14,824 ) less: income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (c) (4 ) (58 ) net income/(loss) attributable to ford motor company (d) $ 6,561 $ 2,717 $ (14,766 ) __________ (a) adjusted for the effect of the change in the accounting standards for convertible debt instruments that, upon conversion, may be settled in cash; see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for additional detail . (b) see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for disclosure regarding 2010 effective tax rate. (c) formerly labeled "minority interests in net income/(loss)," reflects presentation under standard on accounting for noncontrolling interests, which was effective january 1, 2009. (d) formerly labeled "net income/(loss)," reflects presentation under the standard on accounting for noncontrolling interests, effective january 1, 2009 . income/(loss) before income taxes includes certain items ("special items") that we have grouped into "personnel and dealer-related items" and "other items" to provide useful information to investors about the nature of the special items. the first category includes items related to our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix and therefore helps investors track amounts related to those activities. the second category includes items that we do not generally consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating activities, and therefore allows investors analyzing our pre-tax results to identify certain infrequent significant items that they may wish to exclude when considering the trend of ongoing operating res ults. as detailed in note 28 of the notes to the financial statements, we allocate all automotive sector and financial services sector special items to a separate reconciling item, as opposed to allocating them among the operating segments and other automotive, reflecting the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources among the segments. 47 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table details special items in each category by sector (in millions): personnel and dealer-related items: 2010 2009 2008 automotive sector mercury discontinuation/other dealer actions $ (339 ) $ (140 ) $ (250 ) personnel-reduction actions (164 ) (663 ) (1,610 ) job security benefits/transition assistance plan 24 40 376 retiree health care and related charges 31 (768 ) 2,553 total personnel and dealer-related items - automotive sector (448 ) (1,531 ) 1,069 other items: automotive sector debt reduction actions (853 ) 4,663 141 liquidation of foreign subsidiaries foreign currency translation impact (33 ) (281 ) sale of volvo and related items 179 (226 ) (2 ) investment impairment and related charges (96 ) return on assets held in temporary asset account ("taa") 110 (509 ) fixed asset impairment (5,300 ) accelerated depreciation related to autoalliance international, inc. ("aai") (306 ) impairment of mazda dealer network goodwill (214 ) loss on sale of mazda shares (201 ) supplier settlement (200 ) ballard restructuring (70 ) other 4 3 36 total othe r items automotive sector (703 ) 4,173 (6,625 ) total automotive sector (1,151 ) 2,642 (5,556 ) financial services sector dfo partnership impairment (132 ) gain on purchase of ford holdings debt securities 51 ford credit net operating lease impairment charge (2,086 ) total other items financial services sector (81 ) (2,086 ) total $ (1,151 ) $ 2,561 $ (7,642 ) included in provision for/(benefit from) income taxes are tax benefits of $134 million, $132 million, and $144 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, that we consider to be special items. these primarily consist of the tax effects of the pre-tax special items listed above, the impact of changes in tax laws on deferred tax balances, and changes in our assessment of the need for a valuation allowance in each jurisdiction. discussion of automotive and financial services sector results of operations below is on a pre-tax basis, and total automotive sector results and total financial services sector results include special items unless otherwise specifically noted. as noted above, because special items for each sector are allocated to a separate reconciling item, results for individual operating segments within our automotive and financial services sectors do not include special items. discussion of overall automotive cost changes, including structural cost changes (primarily manufacturing and engineering, pension/opeb, advertising and sales promotions, spending-related, and overhead, etc.), is primarily at present-year currency exchange rates and excludes special items and discontinued operations. in addition, costs that vary directly with production volume, such as material, freight, and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. discussion of changes in currency exchange can refer to one or more of the following: (i) the impact of gains or losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the locations, (ii) the effect of remeasuring assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using u.s. dollars as the functional cur rency, or (iii) the results of our foreign currency hedging activities. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) automotive sector results of operations 2010 compared with 2009 details by segment or business unit of income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions): 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 ford north america $ 5,409 $ (639 ) $ 6,048 ford south america 1,010 765 245 ford europe 182 (144 ) 326 ford asia pacific africa 189 (86 ) 275 volvo (662 ) 662 other automotive (1,493 ) (1,091 ) (402 ) total automotive excluding special items 5,297 (1,857 ) 7,154 special items (1,151 ) 2,642 (3,793 ) total automotive sector $ 4,146 $ 785 $ 3,361 details by segment of automotive revenue ("sales") and wholesale unit volumes are shown below: sales (a) (in billions) wholesales (b) (in thousands) 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 ford north america $ 64.4 $ 49.7 $ 14.7 30 % 2,413 1,927 486 25 % ford south america 9.9 7.9 2.0 25 489 443 46 10 ford europe (c) 29.5 28.3 1.2 4 1,573 1,568 5 ford asia pacific africa (d) 7.4 5.6 1.8 33 838 604 234 39 volvo 12.4 (12.4 ) 324 (324 ) total automotive excluding special items 111.2 103.9 7.3 7 5,313 4,866 447 9 special items volvo 8.1 8.1 211 211 total automotive sector $ 119.3 $ 103.9 $ 15.4 15 5,524 4,866 658 14 ________ (a) 2010 over/(under) 2009 sales percentages are computed using unrounded sales numbers. (b) wholesale unit volumes include all ford - brand units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local-brand vehicles produced by our chinese unconsolidated affiliate jiangling motors corporation ("jmc"). revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford - brand vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc - brand vehicles) is not included in our revenue. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed rep urchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. (c) included in wholesale unit volumes are ford-brand vehicles sold in turkey by our unconsolidated affiliate, ford otosan, totaling about 67,000 units and 51,000 units in 2010 and 2009, respectively. "sales" above do not include revenue from those units. (d) included in wholesale unit volumes of ford asia pacific africa are ford-brand and jmc-brand vehicles sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 483 ,000 units and 345,000 units in 2010 and 2009, respectively. "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. the increase in sales for total automotive sector primarily reflects higher volumes and favorable net pricing, offset partially by lower volvo sales reflecting the sale of volvo on august 2, 2010 . the increase in wholesales for total automotive sector reflects higher wholesales in ford north america and ford asia pacific africa, offset partially by lower volvo wholesales (reflecting the sale of volvo). the increase in wholesales for ford north america primarily reflects higher u.s. industry volume, market share , and the non-recurrence of prior-year reductions in dealer stocks. the increase in wholesales for ford south america primarily reflects higher industry volume, offset partially by lower market share and the non-recurrence of prior-year increases in dealer stocks. the increase in wholesales for ford europe primarily reflects higher wholesales in turkey, russia, and other eastern european markets, offset partially by lower whol esales in the 19 markets that we track (primarily lower market share and industry volume, offset partially by the non-recurrence of prior-year reductions in dealer stocks). the increase in wholesales for ford asia pacific africa primarily reflects higher industry volume (primarily in china and india) , increase in dealer stocks, and higher market share. 49 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) details of automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2010 and 2009, along with the level of dealer stocks as of december 31 , 2010 and 2009, are shown below: dealer-owned stocks (a) market share (in thousands) market 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 united states (b) 16.4 % 15.3 % 1.1 pts. 394 382 12 south america (b) (c) 9.8 10.2 (0.4 ) 52 53 (1 ) europe (b) (d) 8.4 9.1 (0.7 ) 213 202 11 asia pacific africa (e) 2.4 2.3 0.1 75 40 35 ________ (a) dealer-owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers. (b) includes only ford and, in certain markets (primarily united states), lincoln and mercury brands. (c) south america market share and dealer-owned stocks are based on our six major markets (argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador and venezuela); market share represents, in part, estimated vehicle registrations. (d) europe market share and dealer-owned stocks are based on the 19 european markets we track (described in item 1 ). (e) asia pacific africa market share and dealer-owned stocks are based on our 12 major markets (australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand and vietnam), including jmc - brand vehicles sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates; market share represents, in part, estimated vehicle sales; dealer-owned stocks include units distributed for other manufacturers. in the united states, continued consumer awareness of our improvements in quality and fuel efficiency are driving strong consideration and demand for ford products, which has enabled us to achieve market share gains and improve net pricing. in south america, the decrease in market share primarily reflects planned lower production in venezuela . in europe, the decrease in market share reflects our decision to reduce participation selectively in low-margin business, as well as the end of the favorable effect of government scrappage programs on our small car sales. in asia pacific africa, the increase in market share primarily reflects share gains in india, as well as china, driven by new model introductions. total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2010 and 2009 was $113.5 billion and $107.2 billion, respectively, a difference of $6.3 billion. an explanation of the change is shown below (in billions): 2010 (over)/under 2009 explanation of change: volume and mix, and exchange $ (11.6 ) material costs excluding commodity costs (a) 1.1 commodity costs (a) (1.0 ) structural costs (a) (1.2 ) warranty / other (a) 0.1 special items / other (b) 6.3 total $ (6.3 ) (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items/other (primarily changes in volvo costs and expenses reflecting the sale of these operations). (b) primarily reflects changes in volvo costs and expenses. total automotive excluding special items . the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable volume and mix (about $3.4 billion), net pricing (mainly in north america) (about $3.1 billion), changes in currency exchange (about $900 million), and the non-recurrence of volvo operating losses from 2009 (about $700 million), offset partially by unfavorable cost changes (about $1 billion, as described in the table below) and higher net interest expense (about $400 million). favorable volume and mix primarily reflects higher industry volumes (about $1.7 billion), market share improvements in nort h america (about $1 billion), and the non-recurrence of prior-year stock reductions (about $900 million), offset partially by lower market share in europe (about $700 million). 50 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the table below details our key automotive sector cost changes (in billions): explanation of cost changes* 2010 better/(worse) than 2009 material costs excluding commodity costs primarily reflects material cost reductions, offset partially by customer and regulatory content costs $ 1.1 commodity costs reflects upward trend in commodity costs in 2010 with increase in global economic growth (1.0 ) structural costs primarily reflects higher manufacturing costs related to increased volumes, engineering to support growth of our product plans, and advertising for product launches (1.2 ) warranty / other primarily reflects lower warranty coverage and other non-structural costs, offset partially by product recall and freight costs 0.1 total $ (1.0 ) * cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. ford north america segment. the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable volume and mix, net pricing, and changes in currency exchange, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes. the unfavorable cost changes primarily reflect higher structural costs driven primarily by higher manufacturing costs to support higher volume and product launches . ford south america segment. the increase in earnings is more than explained by favorable net pricing , changes in currency exchange, and volume and mix, offset partially by unfavorable cost changes (primarily higher commodity and structural costs). ford europe segment. the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable cost changes and higher parts and subsidiary profits, offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix (primarily lower market share offset partially by the non-recurrence of prior-year reductions in dealer stocks). the favorable cost changes primarily reflect material cost reductions and lower warranty costs, offset partially by higher structural costs (in part to support product launches and growth of our product plans). ford asia pacific africa segment. the improvement in results primarily reflects favorable volume and mix (higher industry volume offset partially by unfavorable mix) and favorable cost changes (material cost reductions and lower freight and warranty costs, offset by higher structural costs to support investment in our product and growth plans). other automotive. the decline in results primarily reflects higher net interest expense. this is more than explained by interest expense associated with the debt owed to the uaw veba trust that was added at the end of 2009 and prepaid in full during 2010, and the interest expense associated with our convertible debt issued in november 2009, offset partially by lower interest expense on our revolving debt which was 90% repaid in 2010. 2009 compared with 2008 details by segment or business unit of income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below (in millions), with mazda separated out from "ongoing" subtotals: 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 ford north america * $ (639 ) $ (5,884 ) $ 5,245 ford south america 765 1,230 (465 ) ford europe (144 ) 644 (788 ) ford asia pacific africa (86 ) (157 ) 71 volvo (662 ) (1,497 ) 835 other automotive (1,091 ) (1,324 ) 233 total automotive excluding special items (1,857 ) (6,988 ) 5,131 special items 2,642 (5,556 ) 8,198 total ongoing automotive 785 (12,544 ) 13,329 mazda 230 (230 ) total automotive sector $ 785 $ (12,314 ) $ 13,099 __________ * retrospective application of the new accounting standard on vie consolidation has caused us to deconsolidate aai beginning with 2009 data; even with retrospective application of the new accounting standard, aai remains consolidated in 2008. accordingly, 2009 data in this table exclude income from sales of mazda6, whereas 2008 data in this table include income from these sales. 51 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) details by segment of automotive revenue ("sales") and wholesale unit volumes are shown below: sales (a) (in billions) wholesales (b) (in thousands) 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 ford north america (c) $ 49.7 $ 53.3 $ (3.6 ) (7 )% 1,927 2,329 (402 ) (17 )% ford south america 7.9 8.7 (0.8 ) (8 ) 443 435 8 2 ford europe (d) 28.3 37.6 (9.3 ) (25 ) 1,568 1,820 (252 ) (14 ) ford asia pacific africa (e) 5.6 6.5 (0.9 ) (15 ) 604 532 72 14 volvo 12.4 14.6 (2.2 ) (15 ) 324 359 (35 ) (10 ) total ongoing automotive 103.9 120.7 (16.8 ) (14 ) 4,866 5,475 (609 ) (11 ) jaguar land rover and aston martin 7.0 (7.0 ) (100 ) 125 (125 ) (100 ) total automotive sector $ 103.9 $ 127.7 $ (23.8 ) (19 ) 4,866 5,600 (734 ) (13 ) _________ (a) 2009 over/(under) 2008 sales percentages are computed using unrounded sales numbers. (b) wholesale unit volumes include all ford-brand units (whether produced by ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate), units manufactured by ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed for other manufacturers, and local-brand vehicles produced by our chinese unconsolidated affiliate jmc. revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, ford-brand vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as jmc-brand vehicles) is not included in our revenue. vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option, as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. (c) retrospective application of the new accounting standard on vie consolidation has caused us to deconsolidate aai beginning with 2009 data; even with retrospective application of the new accounting standard, aai remains consolidated in 2008. accordingly, 2009 data in this table exclude sales and wholesale unit volumes of mazda6, whereas 2008 data in this table include sales and wholesale unit volumes of mazda6. (d) included in wholesale unit volumes are ford-brand vehicles sold in turkey by our unconsolidated affiliate, ford otosan, totaling about 51,000 units and 48,000 units in 2009 and 2008, respectively . "sales" above do not include revenue from those units. (e) included in wholesale unit volumes of ford asia pacific africa are ford-brand and jmc-brand vehicles sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates totaling about 345 ,000 units and 251,000 units in 2009 and 2008, respectively. "sales" above does not include revenue from these units. the decrease in revenue primarily reflects lower volumes, the non-recurrence of revenue at jaguar land rover, and unfavorable changes in currency exchange, offset partially by favorable net pricing. details of automotive sector market share for selected markets for 2009 and 2008, along with the level of dealer stocks as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, are shown below: market share dealer-owned stocks (a) (in thousands) 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 united states (b) 15 . 3 % 14.2 % 1 . 1 pts. 382 442 (60 ) south america (b) (c) 10.2 9.7 0. 5 53 45 8 europe (b) (d) 9.1 8.6 0.5 202 282 (80 ) asia pacific africa (e) 2 . 3 2.3 40 54 (14 ) volvo united states/europe (d) 0.6/1.3 0.5/1.3 0.1/ 12/31 13/40 (1)/(9) _________ (a) dealer-owned stocks represent our estimate of vehicles shipped to our customers (dealers) and not yet sold by the dealers to their retail customers. (b) includes only ford and, in certain markets (primarily united states), lincoln and mercury brands. (c) south america market share is based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations for our six major markets (argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, ecuador and venezuela). (d) europe market share and dealer-owned stocks are based on the 19 european markets we track (described in item 1 ). (e) asia pacific africa market share and dealer-owned stocks are based on our 12 major markets (australia, china, japan, india, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, philippines, south africa, taiwan, thailand and vietnam), including jmc brand vehicles sold in china by our unconsolidated affiliates; market share represents, in part, estimated vehicle sales; dealer-owned stocks include units distributed for other manufacturers. 52 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) total costs and expenses for our automotive sector for 2009 and 2008 was $107.2 billion and $137.6 billion, respectively, a difference of $30.4 billion. an explanation of the change is shown below (in billions): 2009 (over)/under 2008 explanation of change: volume and mix, and exchange $ 16.0 material costs excluding commodity costs (a) (1.0 ) commodity costs (a) 1.2 structural costs (a) 5.1 warranty / other (a) 0.5 special items / other (b) 8.6 total $ 30.4 (a) our key cost change elements are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. excludes special items/other (primarily changes in jaguar land rover costs and expenses reflecting the sale of these operations). (b) primarily reflects change in jaguar land rover costs and expenses. total automotive excluding special items. the improvement in earnings is more than explained by favorable cost changes ($5.8 billion, as described in the table below) and favorable net pricing ($5.5 billion). these factors were offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix ($3.7 billion), and unfavorable changes in currency exchange ($2.1 billion). the table below details our key automotive sector cost changes (in billions): explanation of cost changes* 2009 better/(worse) than 2008 material costs excluding commodity costs primarily reflects higher product costs and higher distressed supplier costs, offset partially by material cost reductions $ (1.0 ) commodity costs reflects lower commodity costs and the non-recurrence of prior-year unfavorable commodity hedge adjustments 1.2 structural costs primarily reflects hourly and salaried personnel reductions and efficiencies in our plants and processes, and the impact of the uaw retiree health care settlement agreement 5.1 warranty / other primarily reflects lower freight and distribution costs, and other non-structural costs changes 0.5 total $ 5.8 * cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange; in addition, costs that vary directly with volume, such as material, freight and warranty costs, are measured at present-year volume and mix. ford north america segment. the improvement in earnings is more than explained by favorable net pricing and favorable cost changes. these factors are offset partially by unfavorable changes in currency exchange, and unfavorable volume and mix (including lower industry volume, offset partially by favorable mix and higher market share). the favorable cost changes primarily reflect lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, pension and opeb, and spending-related costs) and lower net product costs. ford south america segment. the decrease in earnings is more than explained by unfavorable changes in currency exchange and unfavorable cost changes, offset partially by favorable net pricing. the unfavorable cost changes primarily reflect higher net product costs. ford europe segment. the decline in results is more than explained by unfavorable volume and mix (including lower industry volume and dealer stock, as well as unfavorable product mix due in part to government scrappage programs), and unfavorable changes in currency exchange. these factors are offset partially by favorable cost changes and favorable net pricing. the favorable cost changes primarily reflect lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, advertising and sales promotions, and spending-related costs). ford asia pacific africa segment. the improvement in earnings is more than explained by favorable net pricing, favorable cost changes, and favorable china joint venture profits, offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix and unfavorable changes in currency exchange. the favorable cost changes are more than explained by lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, advertising and sales promotions, and overhead costs). volvo segment. the improvement in earnings is more than explained by favorable cost changes and favorable changes in currency exchange, offset partially by unfavorable volume and mix. the favorable cost changes primarily 53 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) reflect lower structural costs (including lower manufacturing and engineering, advertising and sales promotions, and overhead costs) and lower net product costs. other automotive. the improvement in results is more than explained by net gains resulting from debt reduction actions and higher returns on the assets held in the taa. mazda segment. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold a significant portion of our investment in mazda. our remaining ownership interest is treated as a marketable security, with mark-to-market adjustments reported in other automotive. financial services sector results of operations 2010 compared with 2009 details of the financial services sector revenues and income/(loss) before income taxes are shown below: revenues (in billions) income/(loss) before income taxes (in millions) 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 ford credit $ 9 . 4 $ 12.1 $ (2 . 7 ) $ 3,054 $ 2,001 $ 1,053 other financial services 0. 3 0.3 (51 ) (106 ) 55 special items (81 ) 81 total $ 9 . 7 $ 12.4 $ (2 . 7 ) $ 3,003 $ 1,814 $ 1,189 ford credit the increase in pre-tax earnings is more than explained by a lower provision for credit losses, primarily related to a lower allowance for credit losses and improved charge-off performance (about $1.2 billion); lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles due to higher auction values (about $600 million); higher financing margin primarily attributable to lower borrowing costs (about $200 million); lower operating costs (about $100 million); and the non-recurrence of a valuation allowance for australian finance receivables sold in 2009 (about $50 million). these factors are offset partially by lower volume primarily related to lower average receivables (about $400 million); the non-recurrence of net gains related to unhedged currency exposure primarily from cross-border intercompany lending (about $300 million); hig her net losses related to debt calls and repurchases (about $200 million); and the non-recurrence of net gains related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives, shown as unallocated risk management in the table below ($135 million). results of ford credit's operations and unallocated risk management are shown below (in millions): 2010 2009 2010 over/ ( under) 2009 income before income taxes north america operations $ 2,785 $ 1,905 $ 880 international operations 354 46 308 unallocated risk management* (85 ) 50 (135 ) income before income taxes 3,054 2,001 1,053 provision for income taxes and gain on disposal of discontinued operations 1,106 722 384 net income $ 1,948 $ 1,279 $ 669 ________ * consists of gains and losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives primarily related to movements in interest rates. the increase in pre-tax earnings for ford credit's north america operations primarily reflects a lower provision for credit losses, improved residual performance on returned lease vehicles, lower operating costs, and higher financing margin. these factors are offset partially by lower volume, the non-recurrence of net gains related to unhedged currency exposure primarily from cross-border intercompany lending, and higher net losses related to debt repurchases. the increase in pre-tax results for ford credit's international operations primarily reflects a lower provision for credit losses, improved margin, the non-recurrence of a valuation allowance for australian finance receivables sold in 2009, and lower losses on residual-based products. these factors are offset partially by lower volume. th e change in unallocated risk management reflected net losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives . 54 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit's finance receivables and operating leases are shown below (in billions): december 31 , 2010 december 31, 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 receivables on-balance sheet finance receivables consumer retail installment and direct financing leases $ 49.7 $ 56.3 $ (6.6 ) non-consumer wholesale 22.0 22.4 (0.4 ) dealer loan and other 2.3 2.4 (0.1 ) unearned interest supplements (1.9 ) (1.9 ) allowance for credit losses (0.8 ) (1.3 ) 0.5 finance receivables, net 71.3 77.9 (6.6 ) net investment in operating leases 10.0 14.6 (4.6 ) total receivables on-balance sheet (a)(b) $ 81.3 $ 92.5 $ (11.2 ) memo: total receivables manage d (c) $ 83.2 $ 94.5 $ (11.3 ) total receivables erviced (d) 83.2 94.6 (11.4 ) __________ (a) at december 31 , 2010 and 2009, includes consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $35.8 billion and $44.9 billion, respectively, and non-consumer receivables before allowance for credit losses of $18.7 billion and $19.5 billion, respectively , that have been sold for legal purposes in securitization transactions but continue to be included in ford credit's financial statements . in addition, at december 31, 2010 and 2009, includes net investment in operating leases before allowance for credit losses of $6.2 billion and $10.4 billion, respectively that have been included in securitization transactions but continue to be included in ford credit's financial statements. these underlying securitized assets are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other creditors. ford credit holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each of these securitization transactions . see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding securitization transactions. (b) includes allowance for credit losses of $854 million and $1.5 billion at december 31 , 2010 and 2009, respectively. (c) includes on-balance sheet receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables of about $ 1.9 billion at december 31 , 2010 and 2009, respectively; and includes off-balance sheet retail receivables of ab out $100 million at december 31, 2009 . (d) includes managed receivables and receivables sold in whole-loan sale transactions where ford credit retains no interest, but which it continues to service of about $ 100 million at december 31, 2009. the decrease in receivables from year-end 2009 primarily reflects the discontinuation of financing for jaguar, land rover, mazda, and volvo, and lower industry volumes in recent years. at december 31, 2010, the jaguar, land rover, mazda and volvo financing portfolio represented about 4% of ford credit's managed receivables. in addition, the mercury financing portfolio represented about 3% of ford credit's managed receivables at december 31, 2010. the percentages for each of these brands will decline over time. the following table shows ford credit's worldwide charge-offs (credit losses net of recoveries) for the various categories of financing during the periods indicated. shown below are the loss-to-receivables ratios, which equal charge-offs on an annualized basis divided by the average amount of receivables outstanding for the period, excluding the allowance for credit losses and unearned interest supplements related to finance receivables (in millions except ratios): 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 charge-offs on-balance sheet (in millions) retail installment and lease $ 416 $ 989 $ (573 ) wholesale (5 ) 94 (99 ) dealer loan and other 4 12 (8 ) total charge-offs on-balance sheet $ 415 $ 1,095 $ (680 ) loss-to-receivables ratios on-balance sheet retail installment and lease 0.65 % 1.25 % (0.60) pts. wholesale (0.03 ) 0.45 (0.48 ) total loss-to-receivables ratio (including dealer loan and other) on-balance sheet 0.47 % 1.07 % (0.60 ) pts. memo: total charge-offs managed (in millions) $ 415 $ 1,100 $ (685 ) total loss-to-receivables ratio (incl uding dealer loan and other) managed 0.47 % 1.07 % (0.60 ) pts. 55 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the decrease from a year ago in charge-offs and loss-to-receivables ratios primarily reflects lower losses in the united states and europe. charge-offs in the united states decreased due to lower repossessions, lower severity and lower wholesale and dealer loan net losses. the decrease in charge-offs in europe primarily reflected lower losses in germany and spain. shown below is ford credit's allowance for credit losses and its allowance for credit losses as a percentage of end-of-period receivables (finance receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements, and net investment in operating leases, excluding the allowance for credit losses) for its on-balance sheet portfolio for the years ended december 31 (in millions, except for ratios): 2010 2009 2010 over/(under) 2009 allowance for credit losses retail installment and lease $ 788 $ 1,479 $ (691 ) wholesale 48 43 5 dealer loan and other 18 27 (9 ) total allowance for credit losses $ 854 $ 1,549 $ (695 ) as a percentage of end-of-period receivables retail installment and lease 1.32 % 2.08 % (0.76 ) pts. wholesale 0.22 0.19 (0.03 ) total including dealer loan and other 1.02 % 1.61 % (0.59 ) pts. the allowance for credit losses is estimated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on such factors as portfolio quality, historical loss performance, and receivable levels. the decrease in the allowance for credit losses is consistent with the decrease in charge-offs and the decline in receivables. at december 31, 2010, ford credit's allowance for credit losses included about $9 million for management's judgment regarding higher retail loss assumptions in spain compared with historical trends used in its models. at december 31, 2009, ford credit's allowance for credit losses included about $215 million for management's judgment regarding higher retail installment and lease repossession assumptions and higher wholesale and dealer loan default assumptio ns compared with historical trends used in its models. see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information on the quality of ford credit's receivables. in purchasing retail finance and lease contracts, ford credit uses a proprietary scoring system that classifies contracts using several factors, such as credit bureau information, credit bureau scores (e.g., fico score), customer characteristics, and contract characteristics. in addition to ford credit's proprietary scoring system, it considers other factors, such as employment history, financial stability, and capacity to pay. based on all the factors ford credit considers, as of december 31, 2010, about 5% of the outstanding u.s. retail finance and lease contracts in ford credit's serviced portfolio were classified as high risk at contract inception, about the same as year-end 2009. see note 7 of the notes to the financial statements for additional information on the quality of ford credit's r eceivables. residual risk ford credit is exposed to residual risk on operating leases and similar balloon payment products where the customer may return the financed vehicle to ford credit. residual risk is the possibility that the amount ford credit obtains from returned vehicles will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. ford credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data. for additional discussion, see "critical accounting estimates accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases" below. north america retail operating lease experience ford credit uses various statistics to monitor its residual risk: placement volume measures the number of leases ford credit purchases in a given period; termination volume measures the number of vehicles for which the lease has ended in the given period; and return volume reflects the number of vehicles returned to ford credit by customers at lease-end. 56 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table shows operating lease placement, termination, and return volumes for ford credit's north america operations, which accounted for about 97% of its total investment in operating leases at december 31, 2010 (in thousands, except for percentages): full year 2010 2009 placements 120 67 terminations 408 386 returns 281 314 memo: return rates 69 % 81 % the increase in placement volumes primarily reflects higher industry sales, higher ford market share and changes in marketing programs. the increase in termination volumes primarily reflects the impact of higher placement volumes in 2007. the decrease in return volumes primarily reflects lower return rates, consistent with improved auction values relative to ford credit's expectations of lease-end values at the time of contract purchase. u.s. ford, lincoln, and mercury brand retail operating lease experience the following table shows return volumes for ford credit's ford, lincoln and mercury brand u.s. operating lease portfolio. also included are auction values at constant fourth quarter 2010 vehicle mix for lease terms comprising 59% of ford credit's active ford, lincoln and mercury brand u.s. operating lease portfolio (in thousands, except for percentages): full year 2010 2009 returns 24-month term 39 60 36-month term 71 65 39-month term 49 34 total returns 159 159 memo: return rates 65 % 78 % auction values at constant fourth quarter 2010 vehicle mix 24-month term $ 19,120 $ 18,225 36-month term 15 , 510 14 , 145 in 2010, ford, lincoln and mercury brand u.s. return volumes were equal to 2009, primarily reflecting a lower return rate, consistent with improved auction values relative to ford credit's expectations of lease-end values at the time of contract purchase, offset by higher termination volume. the increase in auction values at constant fourth quarter 2010 mix primarily reflect overall auction value improvement in the used vehicle market. recent lease placement trends will result in a much lower mix of 24-month contracts within ford credit's return volume over the next several quarters. scheduled termination volume for vehicles under 24-month contracts is near zero for all of 2011, but the mix of 24-month contracts is expected to increase in 2012 to the level seen in 2010. 2009 compared with 2008 details of the full-year financial services sector revenues and income/(loss) before income taxes for 2009 and 2008 are shown below: revenues (in billions) income/(loss) before income taxes (in millions) 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 2009 2008 2009 over/(under) 2008 ford credit $ 12.1 $ 15.7 $ (3.6 ) $ 2,001 $ (473 ) $ 2,474 other financial services 0.3 0.3 (106 ) (22 ) (84 ) special items (81 ) (2,086 ) 2,005 total $ 12.4 $ 16.0 $ (3.6 ) $ 1,814 $ (2,581 ) $ 4,395 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit the improvement in pre-tax results primarily reflects lower depreciation expense for leased vehicles and lower residual losses on returned vehicles due to higher auction values ($1.9 billion), and a lower provision for credit losses primarily related to non-recurrence of higher severity offset partially by higher repossessions (about $800 million). other factors that explain the improvement in pre-tax results include the non-recurrence of net losses related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (about $400 million), net gains related to unhedged currency exposure primarily from cross-border intercompany lending (about $300 million), lower net operating costs (about $200 million), and higher financing margin primarily attributable to lower borrowing costs (about $100 million). these factors were offset partially by lower volume primarily reflecting lower industry volumes, lower dealer stocks, the impact of divestitures and alternative business arrangements, and changes in currency exchange rates (about $1 billion); the non-recurrence of the gain related to the sale of approximately half of ford credit's ownership interest in its nordic operation (about $100 million), and a valuation allowance for australian finance receivables sold in 2009 (about $50 million). liquidity and capital resources automotive sector our industry has been impacted heavily by the global economic crisis that began in 2008, which included a sudden and substantial decline in global industry sales volume. the dramatic decline in industry sales volume, combined with tight credit markets and other economic factors and the costs associated with transforming our business, put significant pressure on our automotive liquidity. while the economic environment has improved, recoveries in key markets have been modest due to weak labor markets and tight credit. we believe that our continued focus on delivering on our one ford plan is the right strategy to achieve our objectives. our automotive liquidity strategy includes ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity available with a high degree of certainty throughout the business cycle by ge nerating cash from operations and maintaining access to other sources of funding. gross cash. automotive gross cash includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. in 2008, we reclassified out of our automotive gross cash calculation the taa securities related to our retiree health care settlement agreement. gross cash is detailed below as of the dates shown (in billions): december 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 cash and cash equivalents $ 6.3 $ 9.7 $ 6.1 $ 20.3 marketable securities (a) 14.2 15.2 9.3 2.0 loaned securities 10.3 total cash, marketable securities and loaned securities 20.5 24.9 15.4 32.6 securities-in-transit (b) (0.3 ) uaw-ford taa/other (c) (2.3 ) short-term veba assets 1.9 gross cash (d) $ 20.5 $ 24.9 $ 13.1 $ 34.2 _________ (a) included in 2010 are ford credit debt securities that we purchased, which are reflected in the table at a carrying value of $201 million, the estimated fair value of which is $203 million. also included are mazda marketable securities with a fair value of $179 million. for similar datapoints for the other periods listed here, see our prior-period financial reports. (b) the purchase or sale of marketable securities for which the cash settlement was not made by period-end and for which there was a payable or receivable recorded on the balance sheet at period-end. (c) amount transferred to uaw-ford taa that, due to consolidation, was shown in cash, marketable securities and loaned securities . (d) pursuant to the retiree health care settlement agreement (see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements), in january 2008 we contributed $4.6 billion of assets and reduced our automotive gross cash accordingly. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held primarily in highly liquid investments, which provide for anticipated and unanticipated cash needs. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily include u.s. treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, corporate investment-grade securities, a-1/p-1 (or higher) rated commercial paper, and debt obligations of certain foreign governments, foreign governmental agencies and supranational institutions. the average maturity of these investments ranges from 90 days to up to one year and is adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. we monitor our cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis. 58 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in managing our business, we classify changes in automotive gross cash into two categories: operating-related and other (which includes the impact of certain special items, contributions to funded pension plans, certain tax-related transactions, acquisitions and divestitures, capital transactions with the financial services sector, dividends paid to shareholders, and other primarily financing-related). our key liquidity metrics are operating-related cash flow, which best represents the ability of our automotive operations to generate cash, automotive gross cash and automotive liquidity, summarized below (in billions): december 31, 2010 2009 gross cash $ 20.5 $ 24.9 available credit lines: secured credit facility, unutilized portion 6.9 0.2 local lines available to foreign affiliates, unutilized portion 0.5 0.5 automotive liquidity $ 27.9 $ 25.6 we believe the cash flow analysis reflected in the table below is useful to investors because it includes in operating-related cash flow elements that we consider to be related to our automotive operating activities (e.g., capital spending) and excludes cash flow elements that we do not consider to be related to the ability of our operations to generate cash. this differs from a cash flow statement presented in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") and differs from cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations , the most directly comparable u.s. gaap financial measure. changes in automotive gross cash are summarized below (in billions): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 (b) gross cash at end of period $ 20.5 $ 24.9 $ 13.1 gross cash at beginning of period 24.9 13.1 34.2 total change in gross cash $ (4.4 ) $ 11.8 $ (21.1 ) operating-related cash flows automotive income/(loss) before income taxes (excluding special items) $ 5.3 $ (1.9 ) $ (6.8 ) capital expenditures (3.9 ) (4.0 ) (6.3 ) depreciation and special tools amortization 3.8 4.2 5.2 changes in receivables, inventory and trade payables (0.1 ) 3.7 (2.5 ) other (c) 0.2 (0.8 ) (6.3 ) subtotal 5.3 1.2 (16.7 ) subvention payments to ford credit (d) (0.9 ) (2.0 ) (2.9 ) total operating-related cash flows 4.4 (0.8 ) (19.6 ) other changes in gross cash cash impact of personnel-reduction programs and job security benefits/ transition assistance plan accrual (0.2 ) (0.7 ) (0.7 ) contributions to funded pension plans (1.0 ) (0.9 ) (1.0 ) net effect of taa/veba on gross cash (e) (0.8 ) (4.6 ) net receipts from financial services sector (f) 2.7 1.0 2.2 net proceeds from/(payments on) automotive sector debt (12.1 ) 11.9 (0.6 ) equity issuances, net 1.3 2.4 0.8 other (g) 0.5 (0.3 ) 2.4 total change in gross cash $ (4.4 ) $ 11.8 $ (21.1 ) _________ (a) except as noted (see note (g) below), volvo's 2010 cash flows are excluded from each line item of this table and included in other within "other changes in gross cash." (b) except for up-front subvention payments to ford credit, jaguar land rover cash flows are excluded from each line item of this table and included in other within "other changes in gross cash." (c) primarily expense and payment timing differences for items such as pension and opeb, marketing, and warranty, as well as additional factors such as the impact of tax payments. (d) beginning in 2008, ford began paying all interest-rate subvention and residual value support to ford credit at the time of origination of new contracts. cash flows represented here reflect ford's monthly support payments on contracts existing prior to 2008. (e) as previously disclosed in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2008, in january 2009 we liquidated the assets in the taa established pursuant to the retiree health care settlement agreement, and replaced the assets with a promissory note owning by ford to ford-uaw holdings llc. (f) primarily distributions received from ford credit, excluding proceeds from financial services sector divestitures paid to the automotive sector. (g) during the third quarter of 2010 we completed the sale of volvo for $1.8 billion, of which $200 million was paid in the form of a note and the balance in cash. as a result of estimated purchase price adjustments of $300 million, we received $1.3 billion in cash. the final purchase price adjustments are expected to result in additional proceeds to ford. also included in 2010 are cash changes primarily reflecting the exclusion of volvo's cash balances as a result of the sale and volvo's cash flows through the date of sale, offset partially by the release of cash previously restricted as to its use. 59 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) although not reflected in the table above, which reflects full-year data, included on a quarterly basis within operating-related cash flows are cash flows related to changes in our working capital balances (i.e., trade receivables, trade payables, and inventories), and receivables and payables between the automotive and financial services sectors associated primarily with the automotive sector's vehicle wholesales. these cash flows generally are subject to seasonal timing differences. for example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories due to our annual december shutdown period, when inventories usually are at the lowest level of the year. this drawdown of inventories creates significant cash inflows during the fourth quarter. as production resumes in j anuary, we replenish our inventory stocks and generally experience resulting cash outflows, reflected in "changes in receivables, inventories and trade payables" in the table above. this same shutdown period generally results in lower trade payables balances and associated cash outflows in the fourth quarter due to lower production levels in the last weeks of the year. additionally, as a result of our december shutdown, automotive receivables from the financial services sector, reflected in "other" during the first nine months operating-related cash flows, largely are collected by the end of the fourth quarter with a normal increase in the receivables balance in january as production resumes. shown below is a reconciliation between financial statement cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations and operating-related cash flows (calculated as shown in the table above), for the last three years (in billions): 2010 (a) 2009 2008 (b) cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations (c) $ 6.4 $ 2.9 $ (12.6 ) items included in operating-related cash flows capital expenditures (3.9 ) (4.0 ) (6.3 ) proceeds from the exercise of stock options 0.3 net cash flows from non-designated derivatives (0.2 ) (0.1 ) 1.2 items not included in operating-related cash flows cash impact of personnel-reduction programs and job security benefits/ transition assistance plan accrual 0.2 0.7 0.7 contributions to funded pension plans 1.0 0.9 1.0 tax refunds, tax payments, and tax receipts from affiliates (0.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.2 ) other (d) 0.8 (0.6 ) (1.4 ) operating-related cash flows $ 4.4 $ (0.8 ) $ (19.6 ) _________ (a) except as noted (see footnotes (c) and (d) below), 2010 data exclude volvo. (b) except as noted (see footnotes (c) and (d) below), 2008 data exclude jaguar land rover. (c) 2008 includes jaguar land rover; 2010 includes volvo. (d) 2008 includes jaguar land rover cash flows; 2010 includes volvo cash flows. equity and equity-linked issuances. on december 4, 2009, we entered into an equity distribution agreement with certain broker-dealers pursuant to which we would offer and sell shares of ford common stock from time to time for an aggregate offering price of up to $1 billion. sales under this agreement were completed in september 2010. since inception, under this agreement we issued 85.8 million shares of common stock for an aggregate price of $1 billion, with 75.9 million shares of common stock for an aggregate price of $903 million being issued in 2010. secured credit agreement . at december 31, 2010, commitments under the revolving credit facility of our credit agreement totaled $8.1 billion, with $886 million maturing on december 15, 2011 and $7.2 billion maturing on november 30, 2013. during 2010, we repaid a total of $6.7 billion of the revolving credit facility maturing in 2013. at december 31, 2010, the utilized portion of the revolving credit facility was about $1.2 billion (including $374 million to support letters of credit). on august 3, 2010, as required by the terms of the credit agreement, we used $288 million of the net cash proceeds from the sale of volvo personvagnar ab (also known as volvo car corporation) to partially prepay the term loans. see our current report on form 8-k filed august 2, 2010 for a discussion of the sale of volvo. in addition, on december 15, 2010, we made a discretionary prepayment of about $800 million on the term loans. these payments combined with our required quarterly payments brought total 2010 payments of the term loans to about $1.2 billion. at december 31, 2010, term loans outstanding under the credit agreement totaled $4.1 billion. the borrowings of the company, the subsidiary borrowers, and the guarantors under the credit agreement are secured by a substantial portion of our domestic automotive assets (excluding cash). the collateral includes a majority of our principal domestic manufacturing facilities, excluding facilities to be closed, subject to limitations set forth in existing public indentures and other unsecured credit agreements; domestic accounts receivable; domestic inventory; up to $4 billion of marketable securities or cash proceeds therefrom; 100% of the stock of our principal domestic subsidiaries, including ford credit (but excluding the assets of ford credit); ford motor company of 60 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) canada, limited intercompany notes (limited to its total tangible assets); 66% to 100% of the stock of all major first tier foreign subsidiaries; and certain domestic intellectual property, including trademarks. the credit agreement requires ongoing compliance with a borrowing base covenant and contains other restrictive covenants, including a restriction on our ability to pay dividends. the credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends (other than dividends payable solely in stock) on ford common and class b stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. in addition, the credit agreement contains a liquidity covenant requiring us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in the aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, loaned and marketable securities and short-term veba assets and/or availability under the revolving credit facility. with respect to the borrowing base covenant, we are required to limit the outstanding amount of debt under the credit agreement as well as certain permitted additional indebtedness secured by the collateral described above such that the total debt outstanding does not exceed the value of the collateral as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement (the "borrowing base value"). the following table provides detail of borrowing base values for various categories of collateral (in millions, except percentages): eligible value (a) advance rate borrowing base u.s. receivables. $ 678 75 % $ 509 u.s. inventory. 1,899 60 % 1,139 pledge of ford motor company of canada, limited intercompany notes (limited to its total tangible assets) 391 100 % 391 pledge of equity in ford credit and certain foreign subsidiaries (net of intercompany transactions) 19,292 75 % 14,471 u.s. property, plant, and equipment subject to indenture limitation 4,101 48 % 1,971 other u.s. machinery and equipment 2,901 40 % 1,160 intellectual property and u.s. trademarks (b) 7,900 32 % 2,500 eligible value/borrowing base $ 37,162 $ 22,141 _________ (a) based on formulas set forth in the credit agreement, and not necessarily indicative of fair market value (which could be materially higher or lower); receivables, inventory, intercompany notes, and property, plant and equipment re flect net book value at december 31, 2010; equity of ford credit is based on its book value at december 31, 2010, net of certain intercompany transactions, and equity in other subsidiaries is based on a multiple of their two-year average earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("ebitda") less debt. for these purposes, ebitda is defined as statutorily reported consolidated operating income plus depreciation and amortization. (b) value reflects independent third party valuation of trademarks. as of december 31, 2010, the borrowing base value and the total outstanding amount of debt and letters of credit secured by collateral were $22,141 million and $5,298 million, respectively, compared with $24,634 million and $13,206 million, respectively, at december 31, 2009. this resulted in a collateral coverage ratio of 4.18 to 1 at december 31, 2010, compared with a collateral coverage ratio of 1.87 to 1 at december 31, 2009. the borrowing base covenant requires a collateral coverage ratio of at least 1 to 1 assuming the revolving credit facility is fully drawn. the borrowing base value decreased by $2.5 billion over the corresponding value at december 31, 2009, primarily due to the sale of volvo. as a result, on a b asis that assumes the revolving loan facility is fully drawn, the collateral coverage ratio at december 31, 2010 (1.82 to 1) decreased from that at december 31, 2009 (1.84 to 1). in addition to customary payment, representation, bankruptcy, and judgment defaults, the credit agreement contains cross-payment and cross-acceleration defaults with respect to other debt for borrowed money, and a change in control default provision. u.s. department of energy ("doe") alternative technology vehicle manufacturer ("atvm") incentive program . we submitted to the doe an application dated november 18, 2008 for term loans totaling $11.4 billion pursuant to the doe's atvm program. our application, which was deemed substantially complete on december 16, 2008, related to atvm program expenditures approved by the doe to be made by us extending beyond 2011. by mutual agreement, our application was amended and restated on june 12, 2009 (as so amended and restated, the application ) to request, initially, term loans totaling $5.9 billion to fund up to 80% of the atvm program expenditures approved through mid-2012. the atvm program was authorized by section 13 6 of the energy independence and security act of 2007, as amended from time to time, to provide up to $25 billion of loans to automobile and automobile part manufacturers for the cost of re-equipping, expanding, or establishing manufacturing facilities in the united states to produce advanced technology vehicles or qualified components, and for associated engineering integration costs. loans under the atvm program are made by and through the federal financing bank, an instrumentality of the u.s. government created by the federal financing bank act of 1973 that is under the general supervision of the secretary of the treasury. 61 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) as disclosed in our current report on form 8-k dated september 16, 2009 (the "september 2009 form 8-k report"), we entered into a loan arrangement and reimbursement agreement ("arrangement agreement") with the doe, pursuant to which the doe agreed to (i) arrange a 13-year multi-draw term loan facility (the "facility") under the atvm program in the aggregate principal amount of up to $5.9 billion, (ii) designate us as a borrower under the atvm program and (iii) cause federal financing bank to enter into a note purchase agreement (the "note purchase agreement") for the purchase of notes to be issued by us evidencing such loans. the proceeds of advances under the facility are to be used to finance certain costs for alternative technology vehicles eligible for financing under the atvm program that are incurred through mid-2012. advances unde r the existing facility may be requested through december 31, 2012. each advance under the facility bears interest at a blended rate based on the treasury yield curve at the time such advance is borrowed, based on the principal amortization schedule for that advance, with interest payable quarterly in arrears. the principal amount of the loans under the facility is payable in equal quarterly installments, commencing on september 15, 2012, through june 15, 2022. through december 31, 2010 we have received $2,752 million in loans under the facility. for additional details regarding the arrangement agreement and the note purchase agreement, refer to exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 filed with the september 2009 ford 8-k report. european investment bank ("eib") credit facility. on july 12, 2010, ford motor company limited, our operating subsidiary in the united kingdom ("ford of britain"), entered into a credit facility for an aggregate amount of 450 million with the eib. proceeds of loans drawn under the facility will be used for research and development of fuel-efficient engines and commercial vehicles with lower emissions, and related upgrades to an engine manufacturing plant. the facility was fully drawn in the third quarter of 2010, and ford of britain had outstanding $699 million of loans at december 31, 2010. the loans are five-year, non-amortizing loans secured by a guarantee from the u.k. government for 80% of the outstanding pr incipal amount and cash collateral from ford of britain equal to 20% of the outstanding principal amount, and bear interest at a fixed rate of approximately 3.2% per annum (excluding fees of 0.13% and 0.30% to the eib for the credit facility and the u.k. government for its guarantee, respectively). ford of britain has pledged substantially all of its fixed assets, receivables and inventory to the u.k. government as collateral, and we have guaranteed ford of britain's obligations to the u.k. government related to the government's guarantee. u.s. ex-im bank and private export funding corporation ("pefco") secured revolving loan. on december 21, 2010, we entered into a credit agreement with pefco and ex-im bank. under the terms of the credit agreement, pefco provided us with a $250 million revolving credit facility and ex-im bank provided a guarantee to pefco for 100% of the outstanding principal amount of the loan, which is secured by our in-transit vehicle inventory to canada and mexico. proceeds drawn on the facility will be used to finance vehicles exported for sale to canada and mexico that were manufactured in our united states assembly plants. the facility was fully drawn in the fourth quarter of 2010 and we had outstanding a $250 million loan a t december 31, 2010. the loan matures on december 21, 2011 and bears interest at libor, at a time period that most closely parallels the advancement term, plus a margin of 1% (excluding a facility fee of 1.6%), with interest payable monthly. other automotive credit facilities. at december 31, 2010 we had $709 million of local credit facilities to foreign automotive affiliates, of which $167 million has been utilized. of the $709 million of committed credit facilities, $147 million expires in 2011, $172 million expires in 2013, and $390 million expires in 2014. net cash/(debt). our automotive sector net cash/(debt) calculation is detailed below (in billions): december 31, 2010 2009 gross cash $ 20.5 $ 24.9 less: long-term debt 17.1 32.0 debt payable within one year 2.0 1.6 total debt 19.1 33.6 net cash/(debt) $ 1.4 $ (8.7 ) see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for our debt maturity table as of december 31, 2010 and additional debt disclosures. 62 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) debt reduction actions . in addition to the $6.7 billion of payments on the drawn amount of the revolving credit facility and the $1.2 billion of payments on our secured term loans described above, we undertook the following transactions during 2010, which further reduced our automotive debt: veba trust note obligations: pursuant to a march 2008 settlement agreement, the uaw veba trust was created to assume responsibility for providing retiree health care benefits to eligible ford-uaw employees and their dependents, the cost of which would be funded with assets contributed by ford. the settlement was amended in march 2009 to create notes a and b, which smoothed our payment obligations and gave us the option to use ford common stock to make payments under note b. on december 31, 2009, we completed the transfer of assets, including notes a and b, to the uaw veba trust, and the trust assumed the retiree health care liabilities. the combined carrying value of notes a and b, which were non-interest bearing, after giving effect to the payments made on december 31, 2009 was $7 billion. on june 30, 2010, we made the scheduled payments on notes a and b in cash totaling about $859 million. in addition, ford and ford credit together purchased from the uaw veba trust for cash the remaining outstanding principal amount of note a (having a present value of $2.96 billion) at a price of 98% or $2.9 billion. of this amount, $1.6 billion was paid by ford, and $1.3 billion was paid by ford credit. ford credit then delivered to ford the portion of note a that it purchased in satisfaction of an existing intercompany tax liability owed to ford. as a result of these purchases, note a has been retired in its entirety. on october 29, 2010 we prepaid the entire remaining outstanding principal amount of note b with cash of $3.5 billion. the prepayment amount was based on the contractual prepayment amount reflecting an agreed-upon discount of 5%. immediately prior to our prepayment, the carrying value of the note was $3.6 billion. trust preferred securities: as announced on march 27, 2009, we elected to defer for up to 20 consecutive quarters future interest payments on our outstanding $3 billion principal amount of 6.5% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2032 ("subordinated convertible debentures"), which are the sole assets of a subsidiary trust ("trust ii"). as of december 31, 2010, trust ii had outstanding 6.5% cumulative convertible trust preferred securities with an aggregate liquidation preference of $2.8 billion ("trust preferred securities"). the decision to defer interest was in accordance with the terms of the subordinated convertible debentures, and resulted in the deferral of distributions on the trust preferred securities in accordance with the terms of those securities. on june 30, 2010, we paid in cash $255 million to the trustee of trust ii, which amount represented all of the accrued interest on the subordinated convertible debentures that was previously deferred, together with interest on the deferred interest compounded quarterly at an annual rate of 6.5%. this amount was paid by trust ii on july 15, 2010 to holders of the trust preferred securities, thereby bringing current distributions on those securities. in addition, we reinstated the quarterly interest payment on the subordinated convertible debentures, and trust ii reinstated the quarterly distribution payment on the trust preferred securities, starting with the payment due on july 15, 2010. on february 10, 2011, we provided notice to the property trustee of trust ii that we will redeem in whole the subordinated convertible debentures due to trust ii on the redemption date of march 15, 2011, at a price of $100.66 per $100 principal amount of such debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for detailed discussion regarding the redemption. conversion offers for senior convertible securities: on october 26, 2010, we launched conversion offers ("conversion offers") pursuant to which we offered to pay a premium in cash to induce the holders of any and all of our outstanding 4.25% senior convertible notes due december 15, 2036 (the "2036 convertible notes") and any and all of our outstanding 4.25% senior convertible notes due november 15, 2016 ("2016 convertible notes" and, together with the 2036 convertible notes, "convertible notes") to convert their convertible notes into shares of ford common stock. the conversion offers expired at midnight on november 23, 2010 and settled on november 30, 2010. under the conversion offers, each $1,000 principal amount of the 2036 convertible notes validly tendered and not withdrawn was exchanged for 108.6957 shares of common stock and $190 in cash and each $1,000 principal amount of the 2016 convertible notes validly tendered and not withdrawn was exchanged for 107.5269 shares of common stock and $215 in cash, plus in each case accrued and unpaid interest. the conversion offers resulted in $554 million and $1.992 billion aggregate principal amount of 2036 convertible notes and 2016 convertible notes, respectively, being tendered and accepted for exchange. as a result, we issued 274,385,596 shares of common stock and paid $548 million in premiums and accrued interest to settle the conversion offers. these shares have been reflected in our fully diluted earnings p er share calculation since january 1, 2010 and, therefore, do not impact our diluted earnings per share. after settlement, about $25 million and $883 million aggregate principal amount of the 2036 convertible notes and 2016 convertible notes, respectively, remain outstanding. 63 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) pension plan contributions. our policy for funded plans is to contribute annually, at a minimum, amounts required by applicable laws and regulations. we do from time to time make contributions beyond those legally required. in 2010, we contributed $1 billion to our worldwide funded pension plans (including volvo) and made $400 million of benefit payments directly by the company for unfunded plans (including volvo). during 2011, we expect to contribute from automotive cash and cash equivalents $1.2 billion to our worldwide funded plans, and to make $400 million of benefit payments directly by the company for unfunded plans, for a total of $1.6 billion. based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major u.s. pension plans in 2011. for discussion of our pension plans, see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements. liquidity sufficiency . one of the four key priorities of our business plan is to finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to grow our business. the actions described above are consistent with this priority. based on our planning assumptions, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products that customers want and value, grow our business, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, and provide a cushion within an uncertain global economic environment. we will continue to look for opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet, primarily by working to ensure our underlying business generates positive automotive op erating-related cash flow that can be used to reduce debt even as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. financial services sector ford credit funding strategy. ford credit's funding strategy is to have sufficient liquidity to enable it to profitably support us, our dealers and customers in all economic environments. ford credit maintains a substantial cash balance, committed funding capacity, and access to diverse funding sources, and it also manages interest rate and currency risks. ford credit's credit ratings improved in 2010 though ford credit remains below investment grade levels. as a result, securitization continues to represent a substantial portion of its funding mix as this market remains more cost effective than unsecured funding and allows access to a wider investor base. ford credit expects its unsecured funding mix to increase as it is able to source te rm funding from the unsecured markets on increasingly favorable terms. in addition, ford credit has various alternative business arrangements for select products and markets that reduce its funding requirements while allowing it to support ford (e.g., ford credit's partnering in brazil for retail financing and fce's partnering with various institutions in europe for full service leasing and retail and wholesale financing). in 2010, ford credit completed about $19 billion of public and private securitization funding in the united states, canada and europe across all asset classes, including $2 billion in the fourth quarter. ford credit also completed about $6 billion of unsecured funding globally, including $1 billion in the fourth quarter. ford credit extended the term of its funding by issuing unsecured debt at longer tenors and selling longer term subordinate notes of its securitization transactions. ford credit's credit spreads improved significantly compared to 2009 levels reflecting improved credit profiles of ford and ford credit, strong investor demand for its debt transactions and supportive markets. at december 31, 2010, ford credit had committed capacity totaling $34.3 billion, about equal to 2009 year-end levels. about 69% of its committed capacity, as of december 31, 2010, is up for renewal in 2011. ford credit's renewal strategy is to protect its global funding needs, optimize capacity utilization and maintain sufficient liquidity. most of its asset-backed committed facilities enable it to obtain term funding up to the time that the facilities mature. any outstanding debt at the maturity of the facilities remains outstanding and is repaid as underlying assets liquidate. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under its committed asset-backed liquidity programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs, and for certain programs, having the ability to obtain derivatives to manage the interest rate risk. ford credit's funding plan is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond its control, including disruption in the capital markets for the types of asset-backed securities used in its asset-backed funding and the effects of regulatory reform efforts on the financial markets. potential impacts of industry events and regulation on its ability to access debt and derivatives markets, or renew its committed liquidity programs in sufficient amounts and at competitive rates, represents another risk to ford credit's funding plan. as a result of such events or regulation, ford credit may need to reduce new originations thereby reducing its ongoing profits and adversely affecting its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 64 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding. ford credit requires substantial funding in the normal course of business. its funding requirements are driven mainly by the need to: (i) purchase retail installment sale contracts and retail lease contracts to support the sale of ford products, which are influenced by ford-sponsored special-rate financing programs that are available exclusively through ford credit, (ii) provide wholesale financing and capital financing for ford dealers, and (iii) repay its debt obligations. ford credit's funding sources include primarily securitization transactions (including other structured financings) and unsecured debt. ford credit issues both short- and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. ford credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short- and long-term funding through institutional investors in the united states and international capital markets. ford credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of floating rate demand notes under its ford interest advantage program and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the united states, europe, mexico, and other international markets. at december 31, 2010, the principal amount outstanding of ford interest advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, was $4.5 billion. at present, all of ford credit's short-term credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("nrsros") are below the tier-2 category, and as a result it has limited access to the unsecured commercial paper market and ford credit's unsecured commercial paper cannot be held by money market funds. at december 31, 2010, t he principal amount outstanding of ford credit's unsecured commercial paper was about $80 million which represents issuance under its commercial paper program in mexico. ford credit does not hold reserves specifically to fund the payment of any of its unsecured short-term funding obligations. instead, ford credit maintains multiple sources of liquidity, including cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities), unused committed liquidity programs, excess securitizable assets, and committed and uncommitted credit facilities, which should be sufficient for ford credit's unsecured short-term funding obligations. u.s. financial industry regulations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "act") was enacted july 21, 2010 to reform practices in the financial services industries, including automotive financing and securitization of automotive finance receivables. since its enactment, the act has briefly interrupted the securitization market on several occasions. each time, temporary or indefinite regulatory clarifications have reopened the markets. the act is subject to significant rulemaking, and we cannot predict the impact of the act and the resulting regulations on our business until such rulemaking is complete. see "item 1a. risk factors" ("item 1a") for additional discussion. government-sponsored securitization funding programs u.s. federal reserve's term asset-backed securities loan facility ("talf"). talf began in march 2009 to make credit available by restoring liquidity in the asset-backed securitization market. talf expired in march 2010. at december 31, 2010, the outstanding balance of ford credit's asset-backed securities that were talf-eligible at issuance was $7.7 billion, compared with $8.1 billion at december 31, 2009 reflecting issuance of $2.3 billion in the first quarter of 2010 more than offset by amortization of about $2.7 billion in 2010. the outstanding balance of ford credit's asset-backed securities that were talf-eligible at issuance will decline to zero over time as the debt continues to amortize and no new securities are issued. european central bank ("ecb") open market operations. fce is eligible to access liquidity through the ecb's open market operations program. this program allows eligible counterparties to use eligible assets (including asset-backed securities) as collateral for short-term liquidity. during 2010, fce repaid all ecb funding relating to retained asset-backed securities with the majority of previously retained asset-backed securities now placed with traditional public term securitization investors. fce continues to obtain funding from the ecb under a longstanding credit claim program using certain of its german wholesale receivables as collateral. at december 31, 2010, fce had $67 million of funding from the ecb, down from $1. 8 billion at december 31, 2009. 65 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding portfolio. ford credit's outstanding debt and off-balance sheet securitization transactions were as follows on the dates indicated (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, debt 2010 2009 asset-backed commercial paper (a)(b) $ 6.6 $ 6.4 other asset-backed short-term debt (a) 1.2 4.5 ford interest advantage (c) 4.5 3.6 unsecured commercial paper 0.1 0.0 other short-term debt 0.9 0.9 total short-term debt 13.3 15.4 unsecured long-term debt (including notes payable within one year) 33.8 38.9 asset-backed long-term debt (including notes payable within one year) (a) 35.8 42.0 total debt 82.9 96.3 off-balance sheet securitizations securitized off-balance sheet portfolio 0.1 retained interest total off-balance sheet securitization transactions 0.1 total debt plus off-balance sheet securitization transactions $ 82.9 $ 96.4 ratios securitized funding to managed receivables 52 % 56 % short-term debt and notes payable within one year to total debt 47 43 short-term debt and notes payable within one year to total capitalization 42 39 __________ (a) obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. (b) at december 31, 2010 and 2009, ford credit did not have any asset-backed commercial paper sold to the u.s. government-sponsored commercial paper funding facility. (c) the ford interest advantage program consists of ford credit's floating rate demand notes. at december 31, 2010, unsecured long-term debt (including notes payable within one year) was down about $5 billion from year-end 2009, primarily reflecting about $11 billion of debt maturities, repurchases, and calls, offset partially by about $6 billion of new unsecured public and private long-term debt issuance. remaining unsecured long-term debt maturities are as follows: 2011 $9 billion; 2012 $7 billion; 2013 $5 billion; and the remainder thereafter. at december 31, 2010, asset-backed long-term debt (including notes payable within one year) was down about $6 billion from year-end 2009, reflecting asset-backed long-term debt amortization in excess of issuance. ford credit is projecting 2011 year-end managed receivables in the range of $80 to $85 billion and securitized funding to represent about 53% to 57% of total managed receivables. it is ford credit's expectation that this percentage will decrease over time reflecting its ability to obtain term funding from the unsecured markets on increasingly favorable terms. funding plan. the following table illustrates ford credit's public and private term funding issuances for 2009 and 2010 and its planned issuances for 2011 (in billions): 2011 forecast 2 0 10 2009 public term funding unsecured $ 6 8 $ 6 $ 5 securitization transactions 12 16 11 15 total public term funding 19 24 $ 17 $ 20 private term funding * $ 4 8 $ 8 $ 11 __________ * includes private term debt, securitization transactions, and other term funding; excludes sales to ford credit's on-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper program. in 2010, ford credit completed about $17 billion of public term funding transactions, including: about $5 billion of retail asset-backed securitization transactions; about $3 billion of wholesale asset-backed securitization transactions; about $3 billion of lease asset-backed securitization transactions; and about $6 billion of unsecured issuances. in 2010, ford credit completed about $8 billion of private term funding transactions (excluding ford credit's on-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper program) primarily reflecting securitization transactions across all regions and asset classes. 66 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) through february 24, 2011, ford credit has completed about $3 billion of public term funding transactions, including about $2 billion retail and wholesale asset-backed securitization transactions in the united states and $1 billion of unsecured issuance in the united states. ford credit also completed about $2 billion of private term funding transactions, primarily reflecting retail, lease, and wholesale asset-backed transactions in the united states, europe, and mexico. the cost of securitization transactions and unsecured debt funding is based on a margin or spread over a benchmark interest rate. spreads are typically measured in basis points. ford credit's asset-backed funding and unsecured long-term debt costs are based on spreads over u.s. treasury securities of similar maturities, a comparable london interbank offered rate ("libor") or other comparable benchmark rates. ford credit's floating rate demand notes funding costs change depending on market conditions. in addition to enhancing ford credit's liquidity, one of the main reasons that securitization remains a primary funding source has been the cost advantage ford credit's securitization transactions offer over ford credit's unsecured long-term debt funding. during 2010, ford credit's sprea ds on the three-year fixed rate notes offered in its u.s. public retail securitization transactions decreased from 92 to 25 basis points over the relevant benchmark rates. during 2010, ford credit's u.s. unsecured long-term debt transaction spreads ranged from 414 to 444 basis points over the relevant benchmark rates, though spreads have tightened to 231 basis points for its 2011 issuance. liquidity. the following table illustrates the various sources of ford credit's liquidity as of the dates shown (in billions): 2010 2009 2008 cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (a) $ 14.6 $ 17.3 $ 23.6 committed liquidity programs 24.2 23.2 28.0 asset-backed commercial paper (b) 9.0 9.3 15.7 credit facilities 1.1 1.3 2 .0 committed capacity 34.3 33.8 45.7 committed capacity and cash 48.9 51.1 69.3 less: capacity in excess of eligible receivables (6.3 ) (6.5 ) (4 . 8 ) less: cash and cash equivalents to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions (4.2 ) (5.2 ) (5.5 ) liquidity 38.4 39.4 59.0 less: utilization (15.8 ) (18.3 ) (37.6 ) liquidity available for use $ 22.6 $ 21.1 $ 21.4 __________ (a) excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities. (b) ford credit's fcar owner trust retails securitization program ("fcar"). at december 31, 2010, committed capacity and cash shown above totaled $48.9 billion, of which $38 . 4 billion could be utilized (after adjusting for capacity in excess of eligible receivables of $6.3 billion and cash required to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions of $4.2 billion). at december 31, 2010, $15.8 billion was utilized, leaving $22.6 billion available f or use (including $10.4 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, but excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities and cash and cash equivalents to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions). at december 31, 2010, ford credit's liquidity available for use was higher than year-end 2009 by about $1.5 billion, reflecting cash payments for debt maturities, repurchases and calls, distributions and tax payments that were lower than the liquidity generated from the impact of lower receivables, profits and new debt issuances. liquidity available for use was 27% of managed receivables. in addition to the $22.6 billion of liquidity available for use, the $6.3 billion of capacity in excess of eligible receivables provides ford credit with an alternative for funding future purchases or originations and gives ford credit flexibility to shift capacity among markets and asset classes . cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. at december 31, 2010, ford credit's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) totaled $14.6 billion, compared with $17.3 billion at year-end 2009. in the normal course of ford credit's funding activities, it may generate more proceeds than are required for its immediate funding needs. these excess amounts are maintained primarily as highly liquid investments, which provide liquidity for ford credit's short-term funding needs and give it flexibility in the use of its other fun ding programs. credit facilities and committed liquidity programs. see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding credit facilities and committed liquidity programs for ford credit. while there is a risk of non-renewal of some of ford credit's committed liquidity programs, which could lead to a reduction in the size of these programs and/or higher costs, ford credit's capacity in excess of eligible receivables would enable it to absorb 67 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) some reductions. ford credit's ability to obtain funding under these programs is subject to having a sufficient amount of assets eligible for these programs as well as its ability to obtain interest rate hedging arrangements for certain securitization transactions. balance sheet liquidity profile. ford credit defines its balance sheet liquidity profile as the cumulative maturities of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash less the cumulative debt maturities over upcoming annual periods. the following table shows ford credit's balance sheet liquidity profile for the periods presented as of december 31, 2010 (in billions): cumulative maturities through 2011 through 2012 through 2013 through 2014 and thereafter finance receivables (a), investment in operating leases (b), and cash (c) $ 63.6 $ 80.5 $ 89.8 $ 97.1 debt (47.4 ) (60.8 ) (69.1 ) (83.0 ) finance receivables, investment in operating leases and cash over/(under) debt $ 16.2 $ 19.7 $ 20.7 $ 14.1 _________ (a) finance receivables net of unearned income. (b) investment in operating leases net of accumulated depreciation. (c) cash includes cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excludes marketable securities related to insurance activities) at december 31, 2010. ford credit's balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases and cash. maturities of investment in operating leases consist primarily of rental payments attributable to depreciation over the remaining life of the lease and the expected residual value at lease termination. the 2011 finance receivables maturities in the table above include all of the wholesale receivables maturities that are otherwise extending beyond 2011, and also include expected prepayments for our retail installment sale contracts and investment in operating leases. the table above also reflects the following adjustments to debt maturities to match all of the asset-backed debt maturities with the underlying asset maturities: the 2011 maturities include all of the wholesale securitization transactions that otherwise extend beyond 2011; and retail securitization transactions under certain committed liquidity programs are treated as amortizing on january 1, 2011 instead of amortizing after the contractual maturity of those committed liquidity programs that otherwise extend beyond january 1, 2011. leverage. ford credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for retail, wholesale, and lease financing, and assessing ford credit's capital structure. ford credit refers to its shareholder's interest as equity. ford credit calculates leverage on a financial statement basis and on a managed basis using the following formulas: financial statement leverage = total debt equity total debt + securitized off-balance sheet receivables - retained interest in securitized off-balance sheet receivables - cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (a) - adjustments for derivative accounting on total debt (b) managed leverage = equity - adjustments for derivative accounting on equity (b) __________ (a) excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities. (b) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. 68 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following table illustrates the calculation of ford credit's financial statement leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2010 2009 2008 total debt $ 82.9 $ 96.3 $ 126.5 equity 10.3 11.0 10.6 financial statement leverage (to 1) 8.0 8.8 12.0 the following table illustrates the calculation of ford credit's managed leverage (in billions, except for ratios): december 31, 2010 2009 2008 total debt $ 82.9 $ 96.3 $ 126.5 securitized off-balance sheet receivables outstanding 0.1 0.6 retained interest in securitized off-balance sheet receivables 0.0 (0.1 ) adjustments for cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (a) (14.6 ) (17.3 ) (23.6 ) adjustments for derivative accounting (b) (0.3 ) (0.2 ) (0.4 ) total adjusted debt $ 68.0 $ 78.9 $ 103.0 equity $ 10.3 $ 11.0 $ 10.6 adjustments for derivative accounting (b) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) total adjusted equity $ 10.2 $ 10.8 $ 10.4 managed leverage (to 1) 6.7 7.3 9.9 __________ (a) excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities. (b) primarily related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives due to movements in interest rates. adjustments to debt are related to designated fair value hedges and adjustments to equity are related to retained earnings. ford credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way ford credit manages its business. ford credit retains interests in receivables sold in off-balance sheet securitization transactions and, with respect to subordinated retained interests, is exposed to credit risk. accordingly, ford credit evaluates charge-offs, receivables, and leverage on a managed as well as a financial statement basis. ford credit also deducts cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding marketable securities related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. ford credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments ford credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. the derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. ford credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. as a result, ford credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates. ford credit believes the managed leverage measure provides its investors with meaningful information regarding management's decision-making processes. ford credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. at december 31, 2010, ford credit's managed leverage was 6.7 to 1, compared with 7.3 to 1 at december 31, 2009. based on ford credit's present analysis of the quality of its assets, ford credit believes the appropriate leverage would be in the range of 10-11 to 1. longer term, ford credit expects to return its leverage to the appropriate level consistent with its analysis of the quality of the assets. ford credit's managed leverage is significantly below the threshold of 11.5 to 1 set forth in the amended and restated support agreement with us. in 2010, ford credit distributed $2.5 billion to its parent. securitization transactions by ford credit securitization. ford credit securitizes finance receivables and net investment in operating leases through a variety of programs, utilizing amortizing, variable funding, and revolving structures. ford credit also sells finance receivables in structured financing transactions. due to the similarities between securitization and structured financing, ford credit refers to structured financings as securitization transactions. ford credit's securitization programs are targeted to many different investors in both public and private transactions in capital markets worldwide. ford credit completed its first securitization transaction in 1988, and regularly securitizes assets, purchased or originated, in the united states, canada, me xico, and european countries. 69 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) all of ford credit's securitization transactions involve sales to consolidated entities or ford credit maintains control over the assets, and, therefore, the securitized assets and related debt remain on its balance sheet. all of ford credit's securitization transactions since the first quarter of 2007 have been on-balance sheet transactions. both on- and off-balance sheet securitization transactions have an effect on ford credit's financial condition, operating results, and liquidity. ford credit securitizes its assets because the securitization market provides it with a lower cost source of funding compared with unsecured debt given ford credit's present credit ratings, and it diversifies ford credit's funding among different markets and investors. in the united states, ford credit is generally able to obtain funding in two days for its unutilized capacity in most of its committed liquidity programs. new programs and new transaction structures typically require substantial development time before coming to market. in a securitization transaction, the securitized assets are generally held by a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity ("spe") in order to isolate the securitized assets from the claims of ford credit's other creditors and ensure that the cash flows on the securitized assets are available for the benefit of securitization investors. as a result, payments to securitization investors are based on the creditworthiness of the securitized assets and any enhancements, and not on ford credit's creditworthiness. senior asset-backed securities issued by the spes generally receive the highest short-term credit ratings and among the highest long-term credit ratings from the rating agencies that rate them. securitization spes have limited purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase the securitized assets, issue asset-backed securities, and make payments on the securities. some spes, such as certain trusts that issue securities backed by retail installment sale contracts, only issue a single series of securities and generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in full. other spes, such as the trusts that issue securities backed by wholesale receivables, issue multiple series of securities from time to time and are not dissolved until the last series of securities is paid in full. ford credit's use of spes in its securitization transactions is consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry. ford credit sponsors the spes used in all of its securitization programs with the exception of bank-sponsored conduits. none of ford credit's officers, directors, or employees holds any equity interests in its spes or receives any direct or indirect compensation from the spes. these spes do not own ford credit's shares or shares of any of its affiliates. in order to be eligible for inclusion in a securitization transaction, each asset must satisfy certain eligibility criteria designed for the specific transaction. for example, for securitization transactions of retail installment sale contracts, the selection criteria may be based on factors such as location of the obligor, contract term, payment schedule, interest rate, financing program, the type of financed vehicle, and whether the contracts are active and in good standing (e.g., when the obligor is not more than 30-days delinquent or bankrupt). generally, ford credit selects the assets to be included in a particular securitization randomly from its entire portfolio of assets that satisfy the applicable eligibility criteria. ford credit provides various forms of credit enhancements to reduce the risk of loss for securitization investors. credit enhancements include over-collateralization (when the principal amount of the securitized assets exceeds the principal amount of related asset-backed securities), segregated cash reserve funds, subordinated securities, and excess spread (when interest collections on the securitized assets exceed the related fees and expenses, including interest payments on the related asset-backed securities). ford credit may also provide payment enhancements that increase the likelihood of the timely payment of interest and the payment of principal at maturity. payment enhancements include yield supplement arrangements, interest rate swaps, and other hedging arrangements, liquidity facilities, and cer tain cash deposits. ford credit retains interests in its securitization transactions, including senior and subordinated securities issued by the spe, rights to cash held for the benefit of the securitization investors (for example, a reserve fund), and residual interests. residual interests represent the right to receive collections on the securitized assets in excess of amounts needed to pay securitization investors and to pay other transaction participants and expenses. ford credit retains credit risk in securitization transactions because its retained interests include the most subordinated interests in the securitized assets and are structured to absorb expected credit losses on the securitized assets before any losses would be experienced by investors. based on past experience, ford credit expects that any losses in the pool of securitized assets would likely be limited to its retained interests. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) ford credit is engaged as servicer to collect and service the securitized assets. its servicing duties include collecting payments on the securitized assets and preparing monthly investor reports on the performance of the securitized assets and on amounts of interest and/or principal payments to be made to investors. while servicing securitized assets, ford credit applies the same servicing policies and procedures that ford credit applies to its owned assets and maintains its normal relationship with its financing customers. ford credit generally has no obligation to repurchase or replace any securitized asset that subsequently becomes delinquent in payment or otherwise is in default. securitization investors have no recourse to ford credit or its other assets for credit losses on the securitized assets and have no right to require ford credit to repurchase their investments. ford credit does not guarantee any asset-backed securities and has no obligation to provide liquidity or make monetary contributions or contributions of additional assets to its spes either due to the performance of the securitized assets or the credit rating of its short-term or long-term debt. however, as the seller and servicer of the securitized assets, ford credit is obligated to provide certain kinds of support to its securitization transactions, w hich are customary in the securitization industry. these obligations include indemnifications, repurchase obligations on assets that do not meet eligibility criteria or that have been materially modified, the mandatory sale of additional assets in revolving transactions, and, in some cases, servicer advances of certain amounts. risks to continued funding under securitization programs. the following securitization programs contain structural features that could prevent ford credit from using these sources of funding in certain circumstances: retail securitization. if the credit enhancement on any asset-backed security held by fcar is reduced to zero, fcar may not purchase any additional asset-backed securities or issue additional commercial paper and would wind down its operations. in addition, if credit losses or delinquencies in ford credit's portfolio of retail assets exceed specified levels, fcar is not permitted to purchase additional asset-backed securities for so long as such levels are exceeded. retail conduits. if credit losses or delinquencies on the pool of assets held by a conduit exceed specified levels, or if the level of over-collateralization or credit enhancements for such pool decreases below a specified level, ford credit will not have the right to sell additional pools of assets to that conduit. wholesale securitization. if the payment rates on wholesale receivables in the securitization trust are lower than specified levels or if there are significant dealer defaults, ford credit will be unable to obtain additional funding and any existing funding would begin to amortize. retail warehouse. if credit losses or delinquencies in ford credit's portfolio of retail assets exceed specified levels, ford credit will be unable to obtain additional funding from the securitization of retail installment sale contracts through its retail warehouse facility (i.e., a short-term credit facility under which draws are backed by the retail contracts). lease warehouse . if credit losses or delinquencies in ford credit's portfolio of retail lease contracts exceed specified levels, ford credit will be unable to obtain additional funding from the securitization of retail lease contracts through its lease warehouse facility (i.e., a credit facility under which draws are backed by the retail lease contracts). in the past, these features have not limited ford credit's ability to use securitization to fund its operations. in addition to the specific transaction-related structural features discussed above, ford credit's securitization programs may be affected by the following factors: market disruption and volatility, the market capacity for ford credit and ford credit's sponsored investments, the general demand for the type of assets supporting the asset-backed securities, the availability of committed liquidity facilities, the amount and credit quality of assets available, the performance of assets in its previous securitization transactions, accounting and regulatory changes, and ford credit's credit ratings. in addition, a bankruptcy of ford, ford credit, or fce would cause certain of ford credit's funding transactions to amortize and result in a termination of certain liquidity commitments. if, as a result of any of th ese or other factors, the cost of securitization funding were to increase significantly or funding through securitization transactions were no longer available to ford credit, it would have a material adverse impact on ford credit's financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to support the sale of ford vehicles. 71 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) on-balance sheet arrangements all of ford credit's securitization transactions involve sales to consolidated entities or it maintains control over the assets and, therefore, the securitized assets and related debt remain in ford credit's financial statements. ford credit expects its future securitization transactions to continue to be on-balance sheet. ford credit believes on-balance sheet arrangements are more transparent to its investors. securitized assets are only available to repay the related asset-backed debt and to pay other securitization investors and other participants. these underlying securitized assets are available only for payment of the debt and other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions; they are not available to pay ford credit's other obligations or the claims of its other cre ditors. ford credit holds the right to the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt and other obligations issued or arising in each of these securitization transactions. this debt is not ford credit's legal obligation or the legal obligation of its other subsidiaries. assets and associated liabilities related to ford credit's on-balance sheet securitization transactions are as follows (in billions): 2010 2009 total outstanding principal amount of finance receivables and net investment in operating leases included in on-balance sheet securitizations $ 60.7 $ 74.8 cash balances to be used only to support the on-balance sheet securitizations 4.2 5.2 debt payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements 43.6 52.9 see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding on-balance sheet securitization transactions. off-balance sheet arrangements ford credit has not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements (off-balance sheet securitization transactions and whole-loan sale transactions, excluding sales of businesses and liquidating portfolios) since the first quarter of 2007, which is consistent with ford credit's plan to execute on-balance sheet securitization transactions. total company equity/(deficit). at december 31, 2010, total equity/(deficit) attributable to ford motor company was negative $673 million, an improvement of $7.2 billion compared with december 31, 2009. the improvement is more than explained by favorable changes in retained earnings (primarily related to 2010 net income attributable to ford ($6.6 billion), and favorable changes in capital in excess of par value of stock (primarily the conversion of portions of the 2036 and 2016 convertible notes ($2.4 billion) and the various equity issuances ($1.6 billion)), of fset partially by unfavorable changes in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (primarily related to currency translation ($2.2 billion) and pension and opeb adjustments ($1.2 billion). credit ratings. our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nrsros by the sec: dbrs limited ("dbrs"); fitch, inc. ("fitch"); moody's investors service, inc. ("moody's"); and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a division of the mcgraw-hill companies, inc. ("s&amp;p"). in several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. a credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. rating agencies' ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities , and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency. lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capit al markets. 72 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the following ratings actions have been taken by these nrsros since the filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2010: ford on january 28, 2011, moody's affirmed ford motor company's ratings and changed the rating outlook to positive from stable. on january 28, 2011, fitch upgraded ford's corporate rating to bb from bb-, the senior secured rating to bbb- from bb+, and the senior unsecured rating to bb- from b. fitch also changed the outlook to positive from stable. on february 1, 2011, s&amp;p upgraded ford's corporate credit rating to bb- from b+, the senior secured debt rating to bb+ from bb and the senior unsecured debt rating to b+ from b. the outlook remains positive. ford credit on january 28, 2011, moody's affirmed ford credit's ratings and changed the rating outlook to positive from stable. on january 28, 2011, fitch upgraded ford credit's corporate rating to bb from bb-. fitch also affirmed the senior unsecured rating at bb- and the short-term rating at b. fitch changed the outlook to positive from stable. on february 1, 2011, s&amp;p upgraded ford credit's corporate credit rating to bb- from b+ and its senior unsecured debt rating to bb- from b+. the outlook remains positive. the following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and the outlook presently assigned to ford and ford credit by these four nrsros: nrsro ratings ford ford credit issuer default/ corporate/ issuer rating long-term senior unsecured senior secured outlook / trend long-term senior unsecured short-term unsecured outlook / trend dbrs bb (low) b bb (high) stable bb r-4 stable fitch bb bb- bbb- positive bb- b positive moody's ba2 ba3 baa3 positive ba2 np positive s&amp;p bb- b+ bb+ positive bb- * nr positive __________ * s&amp;p assigns fce a long-term senior unsecured rating of bb, maintaining a one notch differential versus ford credit. 73 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) outlook we are encouraged by our momentum, and we believe that our one ford plan to aggressively restructure our business to operate profitably, accelerate development of new products customers want and value, finance our plan and strengthen our balance sheet, and work together effectively as one team leveraging our global assets provides the right strategy to achieve our objectives. for additional discussion of the economic environment and discussion and assessment of the risks and opportunities to our planning assumptions, refer to item 1a, "overview" and "critical accounting estimates." our projected vehicle production is as follows (in thousands): first quarter 2011 planned vehicle unit production* over/(under) first quarter 201 0 ford north america 650 76 ford south america 116 6 ford europe 442 ford asia pacific africa 239 63 total 1,447 145 _________ * includes production of ford and jmc brand vehicles to be sold by our unconsolidated affiliates. the year-over-year increase in planned first quarter 2011 production reflects the impact of economic recovery and continued strong customer demand for our products. our planning assumptions and key metrics for 2011, and results from full-year 2010, include the following: industry volume (a) 2010 full-year plan 2010 full-year results 2011 full-year plan (million units) united states 11.5 12.5 11.8 13.0 13.5 europe (b) 13.5 14.5 15.3 14.5 15.5 operational metrics compared with prior year: quality improve improved improve u.s. market share equal / improve 16.4% (up 1.1 ppt.) equal / improve u.s. retail share of retail market (c) equal / improve 14.1% (up 1.1 ppt.) equal / improve europe market share (b) equal 8.4% (down 0.7 ppt.) equal / improve financial metrics compared with prior year: total company pre-tax operating profit (d) improve improved improve automotive structural costs ( e) somewhat higher $1.2 billion higher higher commodity costs somewhat higher $1 billion higher higher automotive operating margin (d) 6.1% equal / improve automotive operating-related cash flow ( f) positive $4.4 billion improve absolute amount: capital spending $4.5 billion $5 billion $3.9 billio n $5 billion $5.5 billion __________ (a) includes medium and heavy trucks . (b) for the 19 markets we track in europe as defined in "item 1. business . " (c) estimate. (d) excludes special items; automotive operating margin defined as automotive pre-tax operating profit, excluding other automotive, divided by automotive revenue. (e) structural cost changes are measured primarily at present-year exchange, and exclude special items and discontinued operations. (f) see "liquidity and capital resources" discussion above for reconciliation of datapoints to u.s. gaap. in addition, as discussed in "liquidity and capital resources" above, our ongoing annualized interest expense will be reduced by about $1.2 billion as a result of the completion of $14.5 billion in automotive debt reduction actions in 2010 and the announced redemption and/or conversion of the $3 billion of debentures related to our trust preferred securities that will occur in march 2011. we expect these actions, which have partial-year impacts in both 2010 and 2011, to reduce our automotive interest expense in 2011 compared with 2010 by about $1 billion. 74 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in 2011, we expect a moderate increase in our worldwide pension expense from the $700 million we incurred in 2010, primarily reflecting the impact of lower discount rates. we expect our cash contributions to pension plans to be about $1.6 billion, which is about the same as in 2010. based on our present planning assumptions for long-term pension asset returns, a normalization of discount rates, and planned cash contributions, we expect our global pension obligations in total to be fully funded over the next few years, with variability on a plan-by-plan basis. as previously reported, our current low effective tax rate is primarily the result of our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. sustained levels of profitability are expected to lead to reversal of the majority of this valuation allowance, which could occur as early as the second half of 2011. see "critical accounting estimates valuation of deferred tax assets" below for discussion of the impact of the reversal on our calculation of earnings per share. reversal of the valuation allowance does not affect our cash tax payments, which should remain low for a number of years. turning to our operations, we expect ford credit to be solidly profitable for the full year although at a lower level than 2010, primarily reflecting the non-recurrence of lower lease depreciation expense and non-recurrence of credit loss reserve reductions of the same magnitude as 2010. the non-recurrence of lower lease depreciation expense is expected because 170,000 fewer leases are scheduled to terminate in 2011 compared with 2010, including about 80,000 leases that were impaired in 2008. this will result in fewer vehicles sold at a gain. in addition, based on its expected portfolio performance, ford credit anticipates the allowance for credit losses will begin to level off in 2011 at about 0.85% - 0.95% of receivables, down from 1.02% of receivables at year-end 2010 and 1.61% of receivables at year-end 2009, resulting in a smaller amount being released from the allowance for credit losses than in 2010. ford credit estimates the profit impact of these two items will reduce pre-tax profits by about $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with 2010. at year-end 2011, we anticipate ford credit's managed receivables to be in the range of $80 billion to $85 billion. ford credit is projecting distributions of about $2 billion during 2011, subject to available liquidity and managed leverage objectives. overall, we believe that the strength of our business positions us to continue to grow profitably by investing aggressively in technology and growth in all regions of the world, and further strengthen our balance sheet in the coming year. we expect each of our operating segments to be profitable for full-year 2011. we expect to build on our 2010 performance with continued improvement in total company pre-tax operating profit and automotive operating-related cash flow in 2011. with this improvement, we expect our full-year 2011 total automotive and ford north america operating margins to be equal to or improved compared with 2010. we expect our improved results in 2011 to be driven primarily by our growing product strength, a gradually strengthenin g global economy and our unrelenting focus on improving the competitiveness of our company. 75 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) risk factors statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation: decline in industry sales volume, particularly in the united states or europe, due to financial crisis, recession, geo-political events, or other factors; decline in market share or failure to achieve growth; lower-than-anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; an increase in or acceleration of market shift beyond our current planning assumptions from sales of trucks, medium- and large-sized utilities, or other more profitable vehicles, particularly in the united states; an increase in fuel prices, continued volatility of fuel prices, or reduced availability of fuel; continued or increased price competition resulting from industry overcapacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors; adverse effects from the bankruptcy, insolvency, or government-funded restructuring of, change in ownership or control of, or alliances entered into by a major competitor; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates; economic distress of suppliers that may require us to provide substantial financial support or take other measures to ensure supplies of components or materials and could increase our costs, affect our liquidity, or cause production constraints or disruptions; single-source supply of components or materials; labor or other constraints on our ability to maintain competitive cost structure; work stoppages at ford or supplier facilities or other interruptions of production; substantial pension and postretirement health care and life insurance liabilities impairing our liquidity or financial condition; worse-than-assumed economic and demographic experience for our postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns); restriction on use of tax attributes from tax law "ownership change;" the discovery of defects in vehicles resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, reputational damage, or increased warranty costs; increased safety, emissions, fuel economy, or other regulation resulting in higher costs, cash expenditures, and/or sales restrictions; unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in our products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise; a change in our requirements for parts or materials where we have long-term supply arrangements committing us to purchase minimum or fixed quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller ("take-or-pay" contracts); adverse effects on our results from a decrease in or cessation or clawback of government incentives related to investments; adverse effects on our operations resulting from certain geo-political or other events; inherent limitations of internal controls impacting financial statements and safeguarding of assets; substantial levels of automotive indebtedness adversely affecting our financial condition or preventing us from fulfilling our debt obligations; failure of financial institutions to fulfill commitments under committed credit facilities; a prolonged disruption of the debt and securitization markets; inability of ford credit to access debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors; higher-than-expected credit losses; increased competition from banks or other financial institutions seeking to increase their share of financing ford vehicles; collection and servicing problems related to finance receivables and net investment in operating leases; lower-than-anticipated residual values or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles; imposition of additional costs or restrictions due to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ("act") and its implementing rules and regulations; new or increased credit, consumer, or data protection or other regulations resulting in higher costs and/or additional financing restrictions; and inability of ford credit to obtain competitive funding. we cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. it is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. for additional discussion of these risks, see item 1a. 76 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) critical accounting estimates we consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. in addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements. warranty and product recalls nature of estimates required. we accrue the estimated cost of basic warranty coverages for each vehicle at the time of sale. we establish estimates using historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. where little or no claims experience exists, we rely on historical averages. see note 31 of the notes to the financial statements for information regarding costs for warranty actions. separately, we also accrue for product recalls based on historical experiences of similar actions. product recalls are distinguishable from warranty coverages in that the actions may extend beyond basic warranty coverage periods. assumptions and approach used. we reevaluate our estimate of warranty obligations on a regular basis. experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. as actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. we then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. based on these data, we revise our estimates as necessary. due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, change in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. pensions nature of estimates required. the estimation of our pension obligations, costs, and liabilities requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience. these assumptions may have an effect on the amount and timing of future contributions. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. expected return on plan assets. the expected return on plan assets assumption reflects historical returns and long-run inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy. the assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. assumptions are not changed unless structural trends in the underlying economy are identified, our asset strategy changes, or there are significant changes in other inputs. salary growth. the salary growth assumption reflects our long-term actual experience, outlook, and assumed inflation. inflation. our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets. expected contributions. the expected amount and timing of contributions is based on an assessment of minimum requirements, and additional amounts based on cash availability and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency). retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. 77 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. amounts are recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 12 years for the major u.s. plans). in 2010, the u.s. actual return on assets was 14%, which was higher than the expected return of 8.25%. the year-end 2010 weighted average discount rates for the u.s. and non-u.s. plans decreased by 62 and 37 basis points, respectively. these differences resulted in unamortized losses of about $2 billion. these losses are only amortized to th e extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value of assets or the projected benefit obligation of the respective plan. for the major u.s. plans, the losses exceed this threshold and recognition will begin in 2011. see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. sensitivity analysis. the december 31, 2010 pension funded status and 2011 expense are affected by year-end 2010 assumptions. these sensitivities may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. they also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. the effect of the indicated increase/(decrease) in factors which generally have the largest impact on pension expense and obligation is shown below (in millions): percentage increase/(decrease) in: point 2011 expense december 31, 2010 obligation assumption change u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans discount rate +/- 1.0 pt. $(90)/$320 $(160)/$210 $(4,600)/$5,590 $(2,840)/$3,290 expected return on assets +/- 1.0 (380)/380 (190)/190 other postretirement employee benefits nature of estimates required. the estimation of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with opeb, primarily retiree health care and life insurance, requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as health care cost increases and demographic experience, which may have an effect on the amount and timing of future payments. assumptions and approach used. the assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates. we base the discount rate assumption primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each plan to a yield curve comprised of high quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve and a single discount rate specific to the plan is determined. health care cost trends. our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. salary growth. the salary growth assumptions reflect our long-term actual experience, outlook and assumed inflation. retirement rates. retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates. mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience. plan obligations and costs are based on existing retirement plan provisions. no assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts). 78 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are included in unamortized net gains and losses. unamortized gains and losses are amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. the weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for u.s. plans at december 31, 2010 was 5.20%, compared with 5.74% at december 31, 2009, resulting in an unamortized loss of about $250 million. this amount is expected to be recognized as a component of net expense over the expected future years of service (approximately 13 years). see note 18 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding costs and assumptions for other postretirement employee benefits. sensitivity analysis. the effect on u.s. and canadian plans of a one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed discount rate would be a (decrease)/increase in the postretirement health care benefit expense for 2011 of approximately $(40) million/$40 million, and in the year-end 2010 obligation of approximately $(660) million/$790 million. valuation of deferred tax assets nature of estimates required. deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences that exist between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards on a taxing jurisdiction basis. we measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which we expect the temporary differences to be recovered or paid. u.s. gaap standards of accounting for income taxes require a reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) such assets will not be realized. the valuation of deferred tax assets requires judgment in assessing the likely future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns and future profitability. our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents our best estimate of those future events. changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events or otherwise, could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. assumptions and approach used. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets. if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we record a valuation allowance. the weight given to the positive and negative evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the evidence may be objectively verified. as such, it is generally difficult for positive evidence regarding projected future taxable income exclusive of reversing taxable temporary differences to outweigh objective ne gative evidence of recent financial reporting losses. u.s. gaap states that a cumulative loss in recent years is a significant piece of negative evidence that is difficult to overcome in determining that a valuation allowance is not needed against deferred tax assets. this assessment, which is completed on a taxing jurisdiction basis, takes into account a number of types of evidence, including the following: nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses. a pattern of objectively-measured recent financial reporting losses is heavily weighted as a source of negative evidence. we generally consider cumulative pre-tax losses in the three-year period ending with the current quarter to be significant negative evidence regarding future profitability. we also consider the strength and trend of earnings, as well as other relevant factors. in certain circumstances, historical information may not be as relevant due to changes in our business operations; sources of future taxable income. future reversals of existing temporary differences are heavily-weighted sources of objectively verifiable positive evidence. projections of future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences are a source of positive evidence only when the projections are combined with a history of recent profits and can be reasonably estimated. otherwise, these projections are considered inherently subjective and generally will not be sufficient to overcome negative evidence that includes relevant cumulative losses in recent years, particularly if the projected future taxable income is dependent on an anticipated turnaround to profitability that has not yet been achieved. in such cases, we generally give these projections of future taxable income no weight for the purposes of our val uation allowance assessment pursuant to u.s. gaap; and tax planning strategies. if necessary and available, tax planning strategies would be implemented to accelerate taxable amounts to utilize expiring carryforwards. these strategies would be a source of additional positive evidence and, depending on their nature, could be heavily weighted. see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding deferred tax assets. 79 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) sensitivity analysis. in 2006, our net deferred tax position in the united states changed from a net deferred tax liability position to a net deferred tax asset position. in our assessment of the need for a valuation allowance, we heavily weighted the negative evidence of cumulative financial reporting losses in then-recent periods and the positive evidence of future reversals of existing temporary differences. although a sizable portion of our north american losses in then-recent years were the result of charges incurred for restructuring actions, impairments, and other special items, even without these charges we still would have incurred significant operating loss es. accordingly, we considered our pattern of then-recent losses to be relevant to our analysis. considering this pattern of then-recent relevant losses and the uncertainties associated with projected future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences, we gave no weight to projections showing future u.s. taxable income for purposes of assessing the need for a valuation allowance. as a result of our assessment, we concluded that the net deferred tax assets of our u.s. entities required a full valuation allowance. we also recorded a full valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of certain foreign entities, such as germany, canada, and spain, as the realization of these foreign deferred tax assets are reliant upon u.s.-source taxable income. at december 31, 2010, our valuation allowance was $15.7 billion, leaving net deferred tax assets of about $900 million on our balance sheet. a sustained period of profitability in our operations is required before we would change our judgment regarding the need for a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. accordingly, although we were profitable in 2009 and 2010, we continue to record a full valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets in the united states and foreign entities discussed above. although the weight of negative evidence related to cumulative losses is decreasing as we deliver on our one ford plan, we believe that this objectively-measured negative evidence outweighs the subjectively-determined positive evidence and, as such, we have not changed our judgment regarding the need for a full valuation allowance in 2010. continued improvement in our operating results, however, could lead to reversal of almost all of our valuation allowance as early as the second half of 2011. until such time, consumption of tax attributes to offset profits will reduce the overall level of deferred tax assets subject to valuation allowance. for each reporting period until the valuation allowance is released, we expect to have low effective tax rates as we continue to record tax expense only for those locations in which we do not have a valuation allowance in place. we will experience more normal effective tax rates, approaching the u.s. statutory tax rate of 35%, in periods after the valuation allowance reverses. in the quarter in which the valuation allowance is released, we would record an abnormally large tax benefit reflecting the release, which would result in a large negative effective tax rate and very high earnings per share from net income attributable to ford. rather than allow this abnormal effective tax rate to impact our earnings per share from operating profit excluding special items ("operating earnings per share"), we intend to classify the release of the valuation allowance as a special item for the quarter in which it reverses and use a more normalized effective tax rate (approaching the u.s. statutory tax rate of 35%). we will take a similar approach for calculation of our full-year operating earnings per share. once the valuation allowance is released, for purposes of calculating our full-year operating earnings per share we will retrospectively revise our quarterly operating earnings per share for each quarter leading up to the reversal using a comparable tax rate approaching 35%. this presentation would have no impact on net income calculation. unlike our u.s. operations where, considering the pattern of relevant losses and the uncertainties associated with projected future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences, we gave no weight to projections showing future taxable income, our net deferred tax assets relate to certain operations outside north america where we generally have had a long history of profitability and believe it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized through future taxable earnings. accordingly, we have not established a valuation allowance on our remaining net deferred tax assets. most notably, at december 31, 2010, we recognized a net deferred tax asset of $1.1 billion in our u.k. automotive operations, primarily based upon the tax return consolidation of our automotive operations with our u.k. fce operation. our u.k. fce operation has a long history of profitability, and we believe it will provide a source of future taxable income that can be reasonably estimated. if in the future fce u.k. profits decline, additional valuation allowances may be required. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance in the future. 80 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in our operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. these vehicles primarily consist of retail lease contracts for ford credit and vehicles sold to daily rental car companies subject to a guaranteed repurchase option ("rental repurchase vehicles") for the automotive sector. we monitor residual values each month, and we review the adequacy of our accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. if we believe that the expected residual values for our vehicles have changed, we revise depreciation to ensure that our net investment in operating leases (equal to our acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect our revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases, and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis. for retail leases, each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. ford credit's north america operating lease activity was as follows for each of the last three years (in thousands, except percentages): 2010 2009 2008 vehicle return volume 281 314 327 return rate 69 % 81 % 86 % for rental repurchase vehicles, practically all vehicles have been returned to us. nature of estimates required. each operating lease in our portfolio represents a vehicle we own that has been leased to a customer. at the time we purchase a lease, we establish an expected residual value for the vehicle. we estimate the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, historical return volumes for our leased vehicles, industry-wide used vehicle prices, our marketing incentive plans and vehicle quality data. assumptions used. for retail leases, our accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on our assumptions of: auction value. ford credit's projection of the market value of the vehicles when we sell them at the end of the lease; and return volume. ford credit's projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned to us at lease-end. see note 8 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases. sensitivity analysis. for returned vehicles, we face a risk that the amount we obtain from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than our estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. at december 31, 2010, if future auction values for ford credit's existing portfolio of operating leases on ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles in the united states were to decrease by one percent from its present estimates, the effect would be to increase the depreciation on these vehicles by about $25 million. similarly, if return volumes for ford credit's existing portfolio of operating leases on ford, lincoln and mercury brand vehicles in the united states were to increase by one percent from its present estimates, the effect would be to increase the depreciation on these vehicles by about $2 million. these increases in depreciation would be charged to depreciation expense during the 2011 through 2014 period so that the net investment in operating leases at the end of the lease term for these vehicles is equal to the revised expected residual value. adjustments to the amount of accumulated depreciation on operating leases will be reflected on our balance sheet as net investment in operating leases and on the statement of operations in depreciation , in each case under the financial services sector. allowance for credit losses the allowance for credit losses is ford credit's estimate of the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases at the date of the balance sheet. consistent with its normal practices and policies, ford credit assesses the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses quarterly and regularly evaluates the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance. because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. 81 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) nature of estimates required. ford credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors. consumer segment. the retail installment and lease portfolio is evaluated using a combination of models and management judgment, and is based on factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of ford credit's present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical and projected used vehicle values, and economic conditions. estimates from models may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio, and an element of the allowance for credit losses is established for the imprecision inherent in loan loss models. reasons for imprecision include changes in economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition and other relevant factors. assumptions used. ford credit makes projections of two key assumptions: frequency. the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time, measured as repossessions; and loss severity. the expected difference between the amount a customer owes ford credit when ford credit charges off the finance contract and the amount ford credit receives, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle, including any recoveries from the customer. ford credit uses these assumptions to assist in estimating its allowance for credit losses. see note 9 of the notes to the financial statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses. sensitivity analysis. changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. the effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions is shown below for ford, lincoln, and mercury brand vehicles in the u.s. retail and lease portfolio (in millions): increase/(decrease) assumption percentage point change december 31, 2010 allowance for credit losses 2010 expense repossession rates* +/- 0.1 pt. $ 20/$(20) $ 20/$(20) loss severity +/- 1.0 10/(10) 10/(10) __________ * reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that ford credit expects will default over a period of time relative to the average number of contracts outstanding. non-consumer segment. the wholesale and dealer loan portfolio is evaluated by segmenting individual loans into risk pools, which are determined by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of collateral, and the financial status of the dealer). the risk pools are analyzed to determine if individual loans are impaired, and an allowance is estimated for the expected loss of these loans. changes in ford credit's assumptions affect the provision for credit and insurance losses on our statement of operations and the allowance for credit losses contained within finance receivables, net and net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet, in each case under the financial services sector. accounting standards issued but not yet adopted for information on accounting standards issued but not yet adopted, see note 3 of the notes to the financial statements. 82 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) aggregate contractual obligations we are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. most of these are debt obligations incurred by our financial services sector. long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. for long-term debt with variable rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. in addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components and services. these arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. we enter into such arrangements to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. "pur chase obligations" are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms. the table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2010 (in millions): payments due by period 2011 2012 - 2013 2014 - 2015 2016 and thereafter total automotive sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) $ 1,168 $ 4,833 $ 1,309 $ 11,139 $ 18,449 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 867 1,766 1,416 10,845 14,894 capital leases 21 15 7 5 48 off-balance sheet purchase obligations 1,944 1,711 821 1,515 5,991 operating leases 183 298 183 231 895 total automotive sector 4,183 8,623 3,736 23,735 40,277 financial services sector on-balance sheet long-term debt (a) (b) (excluding capital leases) 26,208 28,771 11,744 5,083 71,806 interest payments relating to long-term debt (c) 3,132 3,725 1,804 1,396 10,057 capital leases off-balance sheet purchase obligations 33 24 9 4 70 operating leases 66 92 41 47 246 total financial services sector 29,439 32,612 13,598 6,530 82,179 intersector elimination (d) (201 ) (201 ) total company $ 33,421 $ 41,235 $ 17,334 $ 30,265 $ 122,255 (a) amount includes, prior to adjustment noted above, $1,189 million for the automotive sector and $26,208 million for the financial services sector for the current portion of long-term debt. see note 19 of the notes to the financial statements for additional discussion. (b) automotive sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(280) million. financial services sector excludes unamortized debt discounts of $(403) million and adjustments of $302 million related to designated fair value hedges of the debt. (c) excludes amortization of debt discounts/premiums. (d) intersector elimination related to ford's acquisition of ford credit debt securities. see note 1 of the notes to the financial statements for additional detail. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2010 of $1.1 billion (see note 23 of the notes to the financial statements) is excluded from the table above. final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot be reasonably estimated. for additional information regarding long-term debt, operating lease obligations, and pension and opeb obligations, see notes 19, 8, and 18, respectively, of the notes to the financial statements. 83 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk overview we are exposed to a variety of market and other risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, as well as risks to availability of funding sources, hazard events, and specific asset risks. these risks affect our automotive and financial services sectors differently. we monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which includes regular reports to a central management committee, the global risk management committee ("grmc"). the grmc is chaired by our chief financial officer, and its members include our treasurer, our corporate controller, and other members of senior management. our automotive and financial services sectors are exposed to liquidity risk, or the possibility of having to curtail their businesses or being unable to meet present and future financial obligations as they come due because funding sources may be reduced or become unavailable. we maintain plans for sources of funding to ensure liquidity through a variety of economic or business cycles. as discussed in greater detail in item 7 our funding sources include sales of receivables in securitizations and other structured financings, unsecured debt issuances, equity and equity-linked issuances, and bank borrowings. we are exposed to a variety of insurable risks, such as loss or damage to property, liability claims, and employee injury. we protect against these risks through a combination of self-insurance and the purchase of commercial insurance designed to protect against events that could generate significant losses. direct responsibility for the execution of our market risk management strategies resides with our treasurer's office and is governed by written polices and procedures. separation of duties is maintained between the development and authorization of derivative trades, the transaction of derivatives, and the settlement of cash flows. regular audits are conducted to ensure that appropriate controls are in place and that they remain effective. in addition, our market risk exposures and our use of derivatives to manage these exposures are approved by the grmc, and reviewed by the audit committee of our board of directors. in accordance with corporate risk management policies, we use derivative instruments, when available, such as forward contracts, swaps and options that economically hedge certain exposures (foreign currency, commodity, and interest rates). derivative positions, when available, are used to hedge underlying exposures; we do not use derivative contracts for trading, market-making or speculative purposes. in certain instances, we forgo hedge accounting, which results in unrealized gains and losses that are recognized currently in net income. for additional information on our derivatives, see note 26 of the notes to the financial statements. the market and counterparty risks of our automotive sector and ford credit are discussed and quantified below. automotive market and counterparty risk our automotive sector frequently has expenditures and receipts denominated in foreign currencies, including the following: purchases and sales of finished vehicles and production parts, debt and other payables, subsidiary dividends, and investments in foreign operations. these expenditures and receipts create exposures to changes in exchange rates. we also are exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in our automotive sector and changes in interest rates. foreign currency risk and commodity risk are measured and quantified using a model to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of currency and commodity derivative instruments with exposure to market risk that assumes instantaneous, parallel shifts in rates and/or prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. 84 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) foreign currency risk. foreign currency risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in currency exchange rates. accordingly, our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge our economic exposure with respect to forecasted revenues and costs, assets, liabilities, investments in foreign operations, and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. in our hedging actions, we use primarily instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce foreign exchange risk (e.g., forward and option contracts). the net fair value of foreign exchange forward and option contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2010 was a liability of $35 million compared to a liability of $26 million as of december 31, 2009. the potential decrease in fair value of foreign exchange forward and option contracts (excluding adjustments for credit risk), assuming a 10% adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar, would be approximately $334 million at december 31, 2010, compared with a decrease of $622 million as of december 31, 2009. if adjustments for credit risk were to be included, the decrease wou ld be smaller. commodity price risk. commodity price risk is the possibility that our financial results could be better or worse than planned because of changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motor vehicles, such as non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), ferrous metals (e.g., steel and iron castings), energy (e.g., natural gas and electricity), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene). steel and resins are two of our largest commodity exposures and are among the most difficult to hedge. our normal practice is to use derivative instruments, when available, to hedge the price risk associated with the purchase of those commodities that we can economically hedge (primarily non-ferrous metals and precious metals). in our hedging actions, we primarily use instruments commonly used by corporations to reduce commodity price risk (e.g., financially settled forward contracts, swaps, and options). the net fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (including adjustments for credit risk) as of december 31, 2010 was an asset of $63 million, compared to a liability of $39 million as of december 31, 2009. the potential decrease in fair value of commodity forward and option contracts (excluding adjustments for credit risk), assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity prices, would be approximately $60 million at december 31, 2010, compared with a decrease of $20 million at december 31, 2009. if adjustments for credit risk were to be included, the decrease would be smaller. in addition, our purchasing organization (with guidance from the grmc as appropriate) negotiates contracts to ensure continuous supply of raw materials. in some cases, these contracts stipulate minimum purchase amounts and specific prices, and as such, play a role in managing price risk. interest rate risk. interest rate risk relates to the gain or loss we could incur in our automotive investment portfolios due to a change in interest rates. our interest rate sensitivity analysis on the investment portfolios includes cash and cash equivalents and net marketable securities. at december 31, 2010, we had $20.5 billion in our automotive investment portfolios, compared to $24.9 billion at december 31, 2009. we invest the portfolios in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. & #160;the portfolios are classified as trading portfolios and gains and losses (unrealized and realized) are reported in the statement of operations. the investment strategy is based on clearly defined risk and liquidity guidelines to maintain liquidity, minimize risk, and earn a reasonable return on the short-term investment. in 2010, safety of principal was the primary objective in investing our automotive cash. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our portfolios. assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the value of our portfolios would be reduced by about $81 million. this compares to $62 million, as calculated as of december 31, 2009. while these are our best estimates of the impact of the specified interest rate scenario, actual results could differ from those projected. the sensitivity analysis presented assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes of this magnitude are rarely instantane ous or parallel. counterparty risk. counterparty risk relates to the loss we could incur if an obligor or counterparty defaulted on an investment or a derivative contract. we enter into master agreements with counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. exposures primarily relate to investments in fixed income instruments and derivative contracts used for managing interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price 85 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) risk. we, together with ford credit, establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize risk and provide counterparty diversification. our approach to managing counterparty risk is forward-looking and proactive, allowing us to take risk mitigation actions before risks become losses. exposure limits are established based on our overall risk tolerance and estimated loss projections which are calculated from ratings-based historical default probabilities. the exposure limits are lower for lower-rated counterparties and for longer-dated exposures. our exposures are monitored on a regular basis and included in periodic reports to our treasurer. substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated single-a or better. our guideline for counterparty minimum long-term ratings is bbb-. for additional information about derivative notional amount and fair value of derivatives, please refer to note 26 of the notes to the financial statements. ford credit market risk overview. ford credit is exposed to a variety of risks in the normal course of its business activities. in addition to counterparty risk discussed above, ford credit is subject to the following additional types of risks that it seeks to identify, assess, monitor, and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures: market risk the possibility that changes in interest and currency exchange rates will adversely affect cash flow and economic value; credit risk the possibility of loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to contract terms; residual risk the possibility that the actual proceeds received at lease termination will be lower than projections or return volumes will be higher than projections; and liquidity risk the possibility that ford credit may be unable to meet all of its current and future obligations in a timely manner. each form of risk is uniquely managed in the context of its contribution to ford credit's overall global risk. business decisions are evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis and services are priced consistent with these risks. credit and residual risks, as well as liquidity risk, are discussed above in item 7. a discussion of ford credit's market risks (interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) is included below. interest rate risk. ford credit's primary market risk exposure is interest rate risk, and the particular market to which it is most exposed is the change in u.s. dollar libor. interest rate risk exposure results principally from re-pricing risk or differences in the re-pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. an instrument's re-pricing period is a term used to describe how an interest rate-sensitive instrument responds to changes in interest rates. it refers to the time it takes an instrument's interest rate to reflect a change in market interest rates.&# 160; for fixed-rate instruments, the re-pricing period is equal to the maturity of the instrument's principal, because the principal is considered to re-price only when re-invested in a new instrument. for a floating-rate instrument, the re-pricing period is the period of time before the interest rate adjusts to the market rate. for instance, a floating-rate loan whose interest rate is reset to a market index annually on december 31 would have a re-pricing period of one year on january 1, regardless of the instrument's maturity. re-pricing risk arises when assets and the related debt have different re-pricing periods, and consequently, respond differently to changes in interest rates. as an example, consider a hypothetical portfolio of fixed-rate assets that is funded with floating-rate debt. if interest rates increase, the interest paid on debt increases while the interest received on assets remains fixed. in this case, the hypothetical portfolio's cash flows are exposed to changes in interest rates because its assets and debt have a re-pricing mismatch. ford credit's receivables consist primarily of fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts and floating-rate wholesale receivables. fixed-rate retail installment sale and lease contracts are originated principally with maturities ranging between two and six years and generally require customers to make equal monthly payments over the life of the contract. wholesale receivables are originated to finance new and used vehicles held in dealers' inventory and generally require dealers to pay a floating rate. 86 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) funding sources consist primarily of securitizations and short- and long-term unsecured debt. in the case of unsecured term debt, and in an effort to have funds available throughout business cycles, ford credit may borrow at terms longer than the terms of their assets, in most instances with up to ten year maturities. these debt instruments are principally fixed-rate and require fixed and equal interest payments over the life of the instrument and a single principal payment at maturity. ford credit is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that a difference exists between the re-pricing profile of its assets and its debt. specifically, without derivatives, in the aggregate ford credit's assets would re-price more quickly than its debt. ford credit's interest rate risk management objective is to maximize its economic value while limiting the impact of changes in interest rates. ford credit achieves this objective by setting an established risk tolerance and staying within the tolerance through the following risk management process. ford credit determines the sensitivity of its economic value to hypothetical changes in interest rates. ford credit then enters into interest rate swaps, when available, to economically convert portions of its floating-rate debt to fixed or fixed-rate debt to floating to ensure that the sensitivity of its economic value falls within an established tolerance. as part of its process, ford credit also monitors the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow using simulation techniques. to measure this sensitivity, ford credit calculates the change in expected cash flows to changes in interest rates over a twelve-month horizon. this calculation determines the sensitivity of changes in cash flows associated with the re-pricing characteristics of its interest-rate-sensitive assets, liabilities, and derivative financial instruments under various hypothetical interest rate scenarios including both parallel and non-parallel shifts in the yield curve. this sensitivity calculation does not take into account any future actions ford credit may take to reduce the risk profile that arises from a change in interest rates. these quantifications of interest rate risk are reported to the treasurer regularly (either monthly or quarterly depending on the market). the process described above is used to measure and manage the interest rate risk of ford credit's operations in the united states, canada, and the united kingdom, which together represented approximately 82% of its total on-balance sheet finance receivables at december 31, 2010. for its other international affiliates, ford credit uses a technique, commonly referred to as "gap analysis," to measure re-pricing mismatch. this process uses re-pricing schedules that group assets, debt, and swaps into discrete time-bands based on their re-pricing characteristics. ford credit then enters into interest rate swaps, when available, which effectively change the re-pricing profile of its debt , to ensure that any re-pricing mismatch (between assets and liabilities) existing in a particular time-band falls within an established tolerance. as of december 31, 2010, in the aggregate ford credit's debt combined with the derivative instruments economically hedging the debt re-price faster than its assets over the next twelve months. other things being equal, this means that during a period of rising interest rates, the interest rates paid on its debt will increase more rapidly than the interest rates earned on its assets, thereby initially decreasing ford credit's pre-tax cash flow. correspondingly, during a period of falling interest rates, ford credit would expect its pre-tax cash flow to initially increase. to provide a quantitative measure of the sensitivity of its pre-tax cash flow to changes in interest rates, ford credit uses interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous increase or decrease in interest rates of one percentage point across all maturities (a "parallel shift"), as well as a base case that assumes that interest rates remain constant at existing levels. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in ford credit's analysis. as a result, the actual impact to pre-tax cash flow could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest r ate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent ford credit's view of future interest rate movements. pre-tax cash flow sensitivity as of year-end 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates) pre-tax cash flow sensitivity (given a one percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates) december 31, 2010 $ (22 ) $ 22 december 31, 2009 $ 27 $ (27 ) _____ * pre-tax cash flow sensitivity given a one percentage point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. 87 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) based on assumptions included in the analysis, sensitivity to a one-percentage point instantaneous increase in interest rates at year-end 2010 was a decrease in ford credit's pre-tax cash flow over a twelve-month horizon of $22 million compared to an increase of $27 million at year-end 2009. correspondingly, the sensitivity to a one-percentage point instantaneous decrease in interest rates at year-end 2010 was an increase in its pre-tax cash flow over a twelve-month horizon of $22 million compared to a decrease of $27 million at year-end 2008. while the sensitivity analysis presented is ford credit's best estimate of the impacts of the specified assumed interest rate scenarios, its actual results could differ from those projected. the model ford credit uses to conduct this analysis is heavily dependent on assumptions. embedded in the model are assumptions regarding the reinvestment of maturing asset principal, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives, exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives, and predicted repayment of retail installment sale and lease contracts ahead of contractual maturity. ford credit's repayment projections ahead of contractual maturity are based on historical experience.& #160; if interest rates or other factors change, ford credit's actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency risk. ford credit's policy is to minimize exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. to meet funding objectives, ford credit borrows in a variety of currencies, principally u.s. dollars and euros. ford credit faces exposure to currency exchange rates if a mismatch exists between the currency of receivables and the currency of the debt funding those receivables. when possible, receivables are funded with debt in the same currency, minimizing exposure to exchange rate movements. when a different currency is used, ford credit may execute the following foreign currency derivatives to convert substantially all of foreign currency debt obligations to the local country currency of the receivables: foreign currency swap an agreement to convert non-u.s. dollar long-term debt to u.s. dollar-denominated payments or non-local market debt to local market debt for our international affiliates; or foreign currency forward an agreement to buy or sell an amount of funds in an agreed currency at a certain time in the future for a certain price. as a result of this policy, ford credit believes its market risk exposure relating to changes in currency exchange rates is insignificant. the fair value of ford credit's net derivative financial instruments (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) at december 31, 2010 was $712 million, which was $29 million higher than december 31, 2009. for additional information regarding our financial services sector derivatives, see note 26 of the notes to the financial statements.