quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks............................................................................................... 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks. contingent liabilities the company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, cattle procurement, securities, environmental, product and other matters, and is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. a determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies are made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. these reserves may change in the future due to changes in the company's assumptions, the effectiveness of strategies, or other factors beyond the company's control. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. accrued self insurance insurance expense for casualty claims and employee-related health care benefits are estimated using historical experience and actuarial estimates. the assumptions used to arrive at periodic expenses are reviewed regularly by management. however, actual expenses could differ from these estimates and could result in adjustments to be recognized. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. impairment of long-lived assets the company is required to assess potential impairments to its long-lived assets, which is primarily property, plant and equipment. if impairment indicators are present, the company must measure the fair value of the assets in accordance with sfas 121 to determine if adjustments are to be recorded. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. goodwill and intangible asset impairment in assessing the recoverability of the company's goodwill and other intangible assets, management must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. if these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the company may be required to record impairment charges not previously recorded. on september 30, 2001, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets," and was required to assess its goodwill for impairment issues upon adoption, and then at least annually thereafter. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 29 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk market risks relating to the company's operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, the company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings. instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are marked to fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported currently in earnings. additionally, the company held certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures and opt ions, for which it does not apply hedge accounting, but instead marks these positions to fair value through earnings at each reporting date. in fiscal 2002, the company changed its market risk disclosure type from a tabular presentation to a sensitivity analysis presentation. due to the acquisition of ibp, the company's commodity market risk became more diverse. as a result of a more complex risk profile, the company believes a sensitivity analysis provides a clearer understanding of the risks associated with the company's positions. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities and hypothetical changes in exchange rates related to interest rates. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the company's exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects that such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk the company is a purchaser of certain commodities, primarily corn, soybeans and livestock. the company periodically uses commodity futures and options for hedging purposes to reduce the effect of changing commodity prices and as a mechanism to procure grains and livestock. generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts that are highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 28, 2002, and september 29, 2001, respectively, on fair value of open positions. the fair value of such position is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure anal ysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the underlying commodities hedged have a high correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. the following sensitivity analysis reflects an inverse impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions for livestock and a direct impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions for grain. effect of 10% change in fair value dollars in millions 2002 2001 livestock: cattle $ 12 $ 14 hogs 5 3 grain $ 14 $ 4 interest rate risk the company has exposure to changes in interest rates on the company's fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $75 million at september 28, 2002. the fair values of the company's long-term debt were estimated using discounted future cash flows based on the company's incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. the company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain of its financial instruments. under the terms of various leveraged equipment loans, the company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. the maturity dates of these leveraged equipment loans range from 2005 to 2008 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 6.0%. because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on the fair value for fiscal years 2002 and 2001. 30 foreign currency risk the company also periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. the company enters into forward contracts to hedge exposure to united states currency fluctuations inherent in its receivables and purchase commitments. the fair value of these contracts was not significant at september 28, 2002, and september 29, 2001. foreign forward contracts generally have maturities or expirations not exceeding 12 months. a 10% change in the exchange rate of the currencies hedged would change the fair value of the contracts by $4 million at both september 28, 2002, and september 29, 2001. concentrations of credit risk the company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. the company's cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. the company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral. at september 28, 2002, approximately 10.8% of the company's total accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of total accounts receivable. 31quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks. contingent liabilities the company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, cattle procurement, securities, environmental, product and other matters, and is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. a determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies are made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. these reserves may change in the future due to changes in the company's assumptions, the effectiveness of strategies or other factors beyond the company's control. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. accrued self insurance insurance expense for casualty claims and employee-related health care benefits are estimated using historical experience and actuarial estimates. the assumptions used to arrive at periodic expenses are reviewed regularly by management. however, actual expenses could differ from these estimates and could result in adjustments to be recognized. impairment of long-lived assets the company is required to assess potential impairments to its long-lived assets, which are primarily property, plant and equipment. if impairment indicators are present, the company must measure the fair value of the assets in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, &quot;accounting for the impairment of disposal of long-lived assets,&quot; to determine if adjustments are to be recorded. goodwill and intangible asset impairment in assessing the recoverability of the company's goodwill and other intangible assets, management must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. if these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the company may be required to record impairment charges not previously recorded. on september 30, 2001, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, &quot;goodwill and other intangible assets,&quot; and was required to assess its goodwill for impairment issues upon adoption, and then at least annually thereafter. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 24 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk market risks relating to the company's operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, the company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by sfas no. 133, &quot;accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities&quot; (sfas no. 133), as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, will be immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are marked to fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported currently in earnings. additionally, the company holds certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures and options, for which it does not apply hedge accounting, but instead marks these positions to fair value through earnings at each reporting date. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities and hypothetical changes in exchange rates related to interest rates. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the company's exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects that such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk the company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. the company uses commodity futures and options for hedging purposes to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts that are highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 27, 2003, and september 28, 2002, respectively, on fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the underlying commodities hedged have a correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. the following sensitivity analysis reflects an inverse impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions for livestock and natural gas and a direct impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions for grain. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2003 2002 livestock: cattle $ 28 $ 12 hogs 12 5 grain $ 26 $ 14 natural gas $ 11 $ - interest rate risk the company has exposure to changes in interest rates on its fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $62 million at september 27, 2003. the fair values of the company's long-term debt were estimated based upon quoted market prices and or published interest rates. the company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain of its financial instruments. under the terms of various leveraged equipment loans, the company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. the maturity dates of these leveraged 25 equipment loans range from 2005 to 2008 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 6.0%. because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements, an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on the fair value for fiscal years 2003 and 2002. foreign currency risk the company also periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. the company enters into forward contracts to hedge exposure to u.s. currency fluctuations inherent in its receivables and purchase commitments. there were no such contracts outstanding at september 27, 2003, and the fair value of forward contracts at september 28, 2002, was not significant. foreign forward contracts generally have maturities or expirations not exceeding 12 months. a 10% change in the exchange rate of the currencies hedged at september 28, 2002, would have changed the fair value of the contracts by $4 million. concentrations of credit risk the company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. the company's cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. the company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral. at september 27, 2003, approximately 10.3% of the company's net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 26quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks. contingent liabilities the company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, livestock procurement, securities, environmental, product, taxing authorities and other matters, and is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable losses. a determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies are made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. these reserves may change in the future due to changes in the company's assumptions, the effectiveness of strategies or other factors beyond the company's control. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. accrued self insurance insurance expense for health and welfare, workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability risks are estimated using historical experience and actuarial estimates. the assumptions used to arrive at periodic expenses are reviewed regularly by management. however, actual expenses could differ from these estimates and could result in adjustments to be recognized. impairment of long-lived assets the company is required to assess potential impairments to its long-lived assets, which are primarily property, plant and equipment. if impairment indicators are present, the company must measure the fair value of the assets in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, &quot;accounting for the impairment of disposal of long-lived assets,&quot; to determine if adjustments are to be recorded. goodwill and other intangible asset impairment in assessing the recoverability of the company's goodwill and other intangible assets, management must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. if these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the company may be required to record impairment charges not previously recorded. the company assesses its goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, &quot;goodwill and other intangible assets.&quot; see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. non-gaap financial measures this report and other public communications issued by the company from time to time include certain non-gaap financial measures, which are defined as numerical measures of a company's financial performance, financial position or cash flows that exclude (or include) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with gaap in the company's financial statements. non-gaap financial measures utilized by the company include presentations of operating income and other gaap measures of operating performance that exclude or include the effect of the closings of selected operations, bse-related charges, fixed asset write-downs, impairment charges related to various intangible assets, litigation settlements and other similar events. the company's management believes these non-gaap financial measures provide useful information to investors by removing the effect of variances in gaap reported results of operations that are not indicative of fundamental changes in the company's earnings. management also believes that the presentation of these non-gaap financial measures is consistent with its past practice, as well as industry practice in general, and will enable investors and analysts to compare current non-gaap measures with non-gaap measures presented in prior periods. the non-gaap financial measures used by the company should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with gaap. 28 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risks market risks relating to the company's operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, the company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, will be immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. additionally, the company holds certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures which do not meet the criteria for sfas no. 133 hedge accounting. these positions are marked to fair value and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company's risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company's risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the company's exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects that such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk the company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. the company uses commodity futures to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying the company's derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under sfas no. 133 could result in volatility in the company's results of operations. generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts that are designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 2, 2004, and september 27, 2003, respectively, on fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the underlying commodities hedged have a correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. the following sensitivity analysis reflects an inverse impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions for livestock and natural gas and a direct impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions for grain. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2004 2003 livestock: cattle $ 12 $ 28 hogs 18 12 grain 5 26 natural gas 13 11 interest rate risk the company has exposure to changes in interest rates on its fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $51 million at october 2, 2004, and $62 million at september 27, 2003. the fair values of the company's long-term debt were estimated based upon quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. the company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain of its financial instruments. under the terms of 29 table of contents various leveraged equipment loans, the company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. the maturity dates of these leveraged equipment loans range from 2005 to 2008 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 6.0%. because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements, an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on the fair value for fiscal years 2004 and 2003. foreign currency risk the company has non-cash foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of certain receivables and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges the company has exposure to are the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. the company periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. there were no such contracts outstanding at october 2, 2004, and september 27, 2003. concentrations of credit risk the company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. the company's cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. the company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral. at october 2, 2004, and september 27, 2003, approximately 15.0% and 10.3%, respectively, of the company's net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 30 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risks market risks relating to the company's operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, the company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, will be immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. additionally, the company holds certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, which do not meet the criteria for sfas no. 133 hedge accounting. these positions are marked to fair value and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the company exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects that such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: the company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. the company uses commodity futures to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying the company derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under sfas no. 133 could result in volatility in the company results of operations. generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts that are designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 1, 2005, and october 2, 2004, respectively, on fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the underlying commodities hedged have a correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. the following sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions. 34 tyson foods, inc. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2005 2004 livestock: cattle $ 3 $ 12 hogs 13 18 grain 15 5 natural gas 12 13 interest rate risk: the company has exposure to changes in interest rates on its fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $47 million at october 1, 2005, and $51 million at october 2, 2004. the fair values of the company long-term debt were estimated based upon quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. the company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain of its financial instruments. under the terms of various leveraged equipment loans, the company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. the maturity dates of these leveraged equipment loans range from fiscal years 2006 to 2009 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 6.0%. because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements, an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on the fair value for fiscal years 2005 and 2004. foreign currency risk: the company has non-cash foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of certain receivables and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges the company has exposure to are the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. the company periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. there were no significant contracts outstanding at october 1, 2005, and october 2, 2004. concentrations of credit risk: the company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. the company's cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. the company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral. at october 1, 2005, and october 2, 2004, approximately 13.0% and 15.0%, respectively, of the company net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 35 tyson foods, inc.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risks market risks relating to the company's operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, the company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, will be immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. additionally, the company holds certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, which do not meet the criteria for sfas no. 133 hedge accounting. these positions are marked to fair value and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the company exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects that such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: the company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. the company uses commodity futures to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying the company derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under sfas no. 133 could result in volatility in the company results of operations. generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts that are designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 1, 2005, and october 2, 2004, respectively, on fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the underlying commodities hedged have a correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. the following sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions. 35 tyson foods, inc. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2005 2004 livestock: cattle $ 3 $ 12 hogs 13 18 grain 15 5 natural gas 12 13 interest rate risk: the company has exposure to changes in interest rates on its fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $47 million at october 1, 2005, and $51 million at october 2, 2004. the fair values of the company long-term debt were estimated based upon quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. the company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain of its financial instruments. under the terms of various leveraged equipment loans, the company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. the maturity dates of these leveraged equipment loans range from fiscal years 2006 to 2009 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 6.0%. because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements, an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on the fair value for fiscal years 2005 and 2004. foreign currency risk: the company has non-cash foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of certain receivables and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges the company has exposure to are the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. the company periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. there were no significant contracts outstanding at october 1, 2005, and october 2, 2004. concentrations of credit risk: the company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. the company's cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. the company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral. at october 1, 2005, and october 2, 2004, approximately 13.0% and 15.0%, respectively, of the company net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 36 tyson foods, inc.risk factors 10 risk factors included in the company september 30, 2006, annual report filed on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors these risks should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks described below are not the only risks the company faces. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 tyson foods, inc. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and energy, could negatively impact the company earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn and soybean meal are major production costs in the poultry industry, representing roughly 37% of the cost of growing a chicken. as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients can significantly affect our earnings. the production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as the agricultural policies of the u.s. and foreign governments. we do not have facilities of our own to raise cattle in the united states; however, our beef facility in canada has a feed yard that supplies approximately 21% of its live cattle needs. at times in the united states, we raise a small number of cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through various procurement arrangements with independent producers. we employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight, and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase our per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. market demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from global and domestic food processors. we face competition from other global, national and regional food producers and processors. the factors on which we compete include: price; product safety and quality; brand identification; breadth and depth of the product offering; availability of our products; customer service; and credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs and the availability or price of competing proteins, which at times affect demand for our products. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increase, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. the demand for our products can be affected significantly by outbreaks of livestock diseases, and such occurrences can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, the outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our 11 tyson foods, inc. chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken, beef or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. h5n1 . there has been substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as h5n1. h5n1 has been affecting asia since 2002 and has been found in other parts of the world as recently as 2006. it is widely believed h5n1 is spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. there also have been some cases where h5n1 is believed to have passed from birds to humans, as humans came into contact with live birds infected with the disease. public concerns about h5n1 led, for a period of time, to a reduction in demand and price for our poultry products outside of the united states. although h5n1 has not yet been identified in north america, there have been outbreaks of other low pathogenic strains of avian influenza in north america, including in the united states in 2002 and 2004 and in mexico for the past several years that, from time to time, have impacted our operations. further, these low pathogenic outbreaks have not generated the same level of concern or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products in certain countries as that associated with the highly pathogenic h5n1 strain. accordingly, even if the h5n1 strain does not spread to north america, there can be no assurance it will not significantly adversely affect demand for north american produced poultry internationally and/or domestically, and, if it were to spread to north america, it could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and/or demand for our products, in each case in a manner having a significant adverse effect on our financial results. bse . in december 2003, the u.s. department of agriculture (usda) announced a single case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) had been diagnosed in a washington state dairy cow. the origin of the animal was subsequently traced to a farm in canada. shortly after the announcement, several countries (including japan and south korea) closed their borders to the importation of edible beef products from the united states. responding to the loss of export markets, live cattle prices in the united states declined by approximately 18% during the following week. also in 2003, the canadian government announced the first confirmed case of bse in canada which led the usda to close the united states border to the import of live canadian cattle. this reduced the supply of live cattle available for processing at our domestic facilities and contributed to lower facility capacity utilization. the confirmed case in canada also led several countries to close their borders to the import of edible beef products from canada, which affected the international sales of our lakeside, alberta, facility. in june 2005, the usda announced a second confirmed case of bse in the united states and in march 2006, announced the third confirmed case, furthering uncertainty as to whether or when certain closed markets may reopen, and whether or when existing open markets may close. a number of these countries subsequently reopened their borders to u.s. and canadian beef; however, some of the countries, including japan and south korea, have restrictive conditions which limit the types of product that can be imported. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2006, the company exported our products to more than 80 countries and incurred a loss before taxes from foreign operations of $36 million. our major export markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, russia, south korea and taiwan. our export sales for fiscal 2006 totaled $2.1 billion. in addition, we had approximately $197 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily canada and mexico, at the end of fiscal 2006. as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the import of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to various import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; the closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling, the brazilian real and the chinese yuan; 12 tyson foods, inc. political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the foreign corrupt practices act; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. the occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 107,000 employees, of whom approximately 33,000 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages which could adversely affect our operating results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell the livestock to the company under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with our growers, or maintain marketing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and generic e. coli. these pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over proper handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could significantly adversely affect our financial results. 13 tyson foods, inc. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact the company business and liquidity position. at september 30, 2006, we had approximately $4.0 billion of indebtedness outstanding. however, when adjusted for the $750 million short-term investment which the company had on deposit at september 30, 2006, and was used for the repayment of its $750 million 7.25% notes due october 1, 2006, the company net debt position at september 30, 2006, was $3.2 billion. the company had a borrowing capacity of $1.1 billion, consisting of $481 million available under our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and $591 million under our accounts receivable securitization program at september 30, 2006. we expect our indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit agreements, may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: it may significantly limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. in addition, our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and limit our ability to enter into various transactions. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will meet those ratios. if we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our indebtedness would be due and payable immediately, and our business could be significantly adversely affected. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the government hazardous analysis critical control point (haccp) program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our chicken, beef, pork and prepared foods products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the united states food and drug administration. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition could affect our operations and financial condition. we continually evaluate potential acquisitions and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services from others, which could include material acquisitions. a material acquisition may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating acquisitions and integrating the businesses acquired; 14 tyson foods, inc. exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any acquisition which, if obtained, could significantly affect our various financial ratios. we may not be able to address these problems and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units of our company. if we are unable to do this, expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact the company operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions, and we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts adversely affect our reported operating results if commodity prices are decreasing. although these hedges protect us from upward movements in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may limit our ability to participate in cost savings from declining commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact the company business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could significantly adversely affect the demand for our beef, poultry and pork products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact the company business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact the company business. our business could suffer significant set backs in revenues and operating income if our customers plans and/or markets should change significantly, or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 12.5% of our revenues in fiscal 2006. many of our agreements with our customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. extreme weather or natural disasters could negatively impact the company business. extreme weather or natural disasters, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of our livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 15 tyson foods, inc. members of the tyson family can exercise significant control. members of the tyson family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 99.97% of our outstanding shares of class b common stock. $0.10 par value (class b stock) and 1.50% of our outstanding shares of class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them control of approximately 75.06% of the total voting power of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, three members of the tyson family serve on our board of directors. as a result, members of the tyson family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tyson family significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we have relied on the controlled company exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange; therefore, we have elected not to implement rules that provide for a majority of independent directors, or a nominating committee to identify and recommend nominees to our board of directors. pursuant to these exemptions, our compensation committee, which is made up of independent directors, does not have sole authority to determine the compensation of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk market risk market risks relating to the company operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, the company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be offset either against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument change in fair value, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, will be recognized immediately in earnings as a component of cost of sales. additionally, the company holds certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that do not meet the criteria for sfas no. 133 hedge accounting. these positions are marked to market, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the changes in market value of derivatives used in the company risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the company exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: the company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as grains, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. the company uses commodity futures to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying the company derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under sfas no. 133 could result in volatility in the company results of operations. generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 30, 2006, on the fair 38 tyson foods, inc. value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the underlying commodities hedged have a correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. the following sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2006 2005 livestock: cattle $ 43 $ 3 hogs 37 13 grain 11 15 natural gas 1 12 interest rate risk: at september 30, 2006, the company had fixed-rate, long-term debt of $3.4 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 7.4%. the company has exposure to changes in interest rates on this fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of the company fixed-rate, long-term debt by approximately $87 million at september 30, 2006, and $47 million at october 1, 2005. the fair values of the company long-term debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. at september 30, 2006, the company had variable rate, long-term debt of $545 million with a weighted average interest rate (as of september 30, 2006) of 6.1%. the company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain financial instruments. under the terms of various leveraged equipment loans, the company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. the maturity dates of these leveraged equipment loans range from fiscal years 2007 to 2009 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 5.4%. because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements, an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on interest expense for fiscal years 2006 and 2005. foreign currency risk: the company has non-cash foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of certain receivables and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges the company has exposure to are the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. the company periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates amounts to approximately $4 million at september 30, 2006, and $5 million at october 1, 2005. concentrations of credit risk: the company's financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term investments and trade receivables. the company's cash equivalents and short-term investments are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. the company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally does not require collateral. at september 30, 2006, and october 1, 2005, approximately 13.0% of the company net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 39 tyson foods, inc.risk factors 7 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and energy, could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn and soybean meal are major production costs in the poultry industry, representing roughly 41% of the cost of growing a chicken in fiscal 2007. as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can significantly affect our earnings. production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural policies of domestic and foreign governments. we do not have facilities of our own to raise cattle in the united states; however, our beef facility in canada has a feed yard that supplies approximately 20% of its live cattle needs. at times in the united states, we raise a small number of cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through various procurement arrangements with independent producers. we also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. 7 tyson foods, inc. market demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from global and domestic food processors. we face competition from other global, national and regional food producers and processors. the factors on which we compete include: -price; -product safety and quality; -brand identification; -breadth and depth of the product offering; -availability of our products; -customer service; and -credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs and the availability or price of competing proteins. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be affected significantly by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken, beef or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. h5n1 . there has been substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as h5n1. h5n1 has been affecting asia since 2002 and has been found in other parts of the world as recently as 2006. it is widely believed h5n1 is spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. there also have been some cases where h5n1 is believed to have passed from birds to humans, as humans came into contact with live birds infected with the disease. public concerns about h5n1 led, for a period of time, to a reduction in demand and price for our poultry products outside of the united states. although h5n1 has not been identified in north america, there have been outbreaks of other low pathogenic strains of avian influenza in north america, including in the united states in 2002 and 2004 and in mexico for the past several years that, from time to time, have impacted our operations. these low pathogenic outbreaks have not generated the same level of concern or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products as associated with the highly pathogenic h5n1 strain. accordingly, even if the h5n1 strain does not spread to north america, there can be no assurance it will not significantly adversely affect demand for north american produced poultry internationally and/or domestically. if it were to spread to north america, it could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and/or demand for our products. in each case, it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. bse . in december 2003, the united states department of agriculture (usda) announced a single case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) had been diagnosed in a washington state dairy cow. the origin of the animal was subsequently traced to a farm in canada. shortly after the announcement, several countries (including japan and south korea) closed their borders to the importation of edible beef products from the united states. responding to the loss of export markets, live cattle prices in the united states declined by approximately 18% during the following week. also in 2003, the canadian government announced the first confirmed case of bse in canada which led the usda to close the united states border to the import of live canadian cattle. this reduced the supply of live cattle available for processing at our domestic facilities and contributed to lower facility capacity utilization. the confirmed case in canada also led several countries to close their borders to the import of edible beef products from canada, which affected the international sales of our lakeside, alberta, facility. in june 2005, the usda announced a second confirmed case of bse in the united states and in march 2006 announced the third confirmed case, furthering uncertainty as to whether or when certain closed markets may reopen and whether or when existing open markets may close. a number of these countries subsequently reopened their borders to domestic and canadian beef; however, some of the countries, including japan and south korea, have restrictive conditions that limit the types of product that can be imported. 8 tyson foods, inc. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2007, we exported our products to more than 80 countries, including canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, russia, south korea and taiwan. our export sales for fiscal 2007 totaled $2.7 billion. in addition, we had approximately $211 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily canada and mexico, at the end of fiscal 2007. approximately 5% of income before income taxes for fiscal 2007 was from foreign operations. as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the import of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to various import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling, the brazilian real and the chinese yuan; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the foreign corrupt practices act; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 104,000 employees, of whom approximately 32,000 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages which could adversely affect our operating results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with our growers, or maintain marketing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and generic e. coli. these pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over proper handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. 9 tyson foods, inc. our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could significantly adversely affect our financial results. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. at september 29, 2007, we had approximately $2.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding. we had a borrowing capacity of $1.3 billion, consisting of $748 million available under our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and $537 million under our accounts receivable securitization program at september 29, 2007. we expect our indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit agreements, may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: it may significantly limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. in addition, our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and limit our ability to enter into various transactions. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will meet those ratios. if we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our indebtedness would be due and payable immediately, and our business could be significantly adversely affected. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. in assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flow and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management judgment in applying these factors to the assessment of recoverability. goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business and market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. in addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. as of september 29, 2007, we had $2.5 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 24.3% of total assets. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the united states government hazardous analysis critical control point (haccp) program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our chicken, beef, pork and prepared foods products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the united states food and drug administration. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new 10 tyson foods, inc. products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. we continually evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, transactions ), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services from others, which could include material transactions. a material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction, which, if obtained, could significantly affect our various financial ratios. we may not be able to address these problems and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units of our company. if we are unable to do this, expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could significantly adversely affect the demand for our beef, poultry and pork products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant set backs in revenues and operating income if our customers plans and/or markets should change significantly, or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for approximately 12.9% of our revenues in fiscal 2007. many of our agreements with our customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. 11 tyson foods, inc. the consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. if we fail to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be as successful as we expect. we have been exploring ways to commercialize animal fats and other by-products from our operations, as well as the poultry litter of our contract growers, to generate energy and other value-added products. as a result, in fiscal 2007 we announced a strategic alliance with conocophillips and the formation of a joint venture with syntroleum corporation. we will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. these initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announce or would expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, possible discontinuance of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas. members of the tyson family can exercise significant control. members of the tyson family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 99.97% of our outstanding shares of class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and 1.27% of our outstanding shares of class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them control of approximately 71% of the total voting power of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, three members of the tyson family serve on our board of directors. as a result, members of the tyson family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tyson family significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we have relied on the controlled company exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange; therefore, we have elected not to implement the rule that provides for a nominating committee to identify and recommend nominees to our board of directors. pursuant to these exemptions, our compensation committee, which is made up of independent directors, does not have sole authority to determine the compensation of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk market risk market risks relating to our operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, as defined by sfas no. 133, as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument change in fair value, as defined by statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities (sfas no. 133), as amended, is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. these positions are marked to market, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. the changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. 37 tyson foods, inc. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under sfas no. 133 could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 29, 2007, and september 30, 2006, on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge positions. the following sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2007 2006 livestock: cattle $ 33 $ 43 hogs 64 37 grain 9 11 natural gas 2 1 interest rate risk: at september 29, 2007, we had fixed-rate debt of $2.5 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 7.5%. we have exposure to changes in interest rates on this fixed-rate debt. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $58 million at september 29, 2007, and $87 million at september 30, 2006. the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. at september 29, 2007, we had variable rate debt of $275 million with a weighted average interest rate of 5.9%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 29, 2007, and september 30, 2006, would have a minimal effect on interest expense. foreign currency risk: we have non-cash foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges we have exposure to are the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 29, 2007, and september 30, 2006, would have a minimal effect on pretax income. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 29, 2007, and september 30, 2006, approximately 12.1% and 13.0%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 38 tyson foods, inc.risk factors 7 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and energy could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine, energy and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn and soybean meal are major production costs in the poultry industry, representing roughly 47% of our cost of growing a chicken in fiscal 2008. as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can adversely affect our earnings. production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. we have cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through various procurement arrangements with independent producers. we also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. market demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from global and domestic food processors. we face competition from other global, national and regional food producers and processors. the factors on which we compete include: price; product safety and quality; brand identification; breadth and depth of the product offering; availability of our products; customer service; and credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs and the availability or price of competing proteins. 7 tyson foods, inc. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, such as strains of avian influenza and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken, beef or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2008, we exported to more than 90 countries. major export markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, russia, south korea and taiwan. our export sales for fiscal 2008 totaled $3.2 billion. in addition, we had approximately $139 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily mexico, at the end of fiscal 2008. approximately 22% of income from continuing operations before income taxes for fiscal 2008 was from foreign operations. as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the import of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling, the brazilian real and the chinese yuan; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the foreign corrupt practices act; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. excluding our lakeside discontinued operation, we have approximately 107,000 employees, of whom approximately 31,000 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with our growers, or maintain marketing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and generic e. coli. these pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper 8 tyson foods, inc. handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over proper handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. at september 27, 2008, we had approximately $2.9 billion of indebtedness outstanding. we had a borrowing capacity of $1.5 billion, consisting of $709 million available under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and $750 million under our accounts receivable securitization facility at september 27, 2008. we expect our indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit agreements, may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. in addition, our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and limit our ability to enter into various transactions. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will meet those ratios. if we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our indebtedness would be due and payable immediately, and our business could be adversely affected. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. in assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. in addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. as of september 27, 2008, we had $2.5 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 23.1% of total assets. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the haccp program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our chicken, beef, pork and prepared foods products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the fda. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards, such as recently enacted country of origin labeling (cool) requirements. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal 9 tyson foods, inc. sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. we have recently completed acquisitions and joint venture agreements and continually evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, transactions ), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services from others, which could include material transactions. a material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction, which, if obtained, could adversely affect our various financial ratios. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units of our company. if we are unable to do this, expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our beef, poultry and pork products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. the recent disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any technical or other waivers under our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity risk management activities if we are required to record additional losses related to derivative financial instruments in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 if grain prices remain lower than prices at the end of fiscal 2008; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant set backs in sales and operating income if our customers plans and/or markets should change significantly, or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 13.3% of our sales in fiscal 2008. many of our agreements with our customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. 10 tyson foods, inc. the consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. if we fail to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our financial results. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be as successful as we expect. we have been exploring ways to commercialize animal fats and other by-products from our operations, as well as the poultry litter of our contract growers, to generate energy and other value-added products. for example, in fiscal 2007, we announced the formation of dynamic fuels, a joint venture with syntroleum corporation. we will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. these initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announced or would expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, possible discontinuance of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas. members of the tyson family can exercise significant control. members of the tyson family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 99.97% of our outstanding shares of class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and 2.31% of our outstanding shares of class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them control of approximately 70% of the total voting power of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, three members of the tyson family serve on our board of directors. as a result, members of the tyson family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tyson family significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we have relied on the controlled company exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. pursuant to these exemptions, our compensation committee, which is made up of independent directors, does not have sole authority to determine the compensation of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, as defined by statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities (sfas no. 133), as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument change in fair value, as defined by sfas no. 133, is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. these positions are marked to market, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock, in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative 37 tyson foods, inc. financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under sfas no. 133 could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 27, 2008, and september 29, 2007, on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2008 2007 livestock: cattle $ 78 $ 33 hogs 31 64 grain 88 9 interest rate risk: at september 27, 2008, we had fixed-rate debt of $2.9 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 7.0%. we have exposure to changes in interest rates on this fixed-rate debt. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $45 million at september 27, 2008, and $58 million at september 29, 2007. the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. at september 27, 2008, we had variable rate debt of $19 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.6%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 27, 2008, and september 29, 2007, would have a minimal effect on interest expense. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges we have exposure to are the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 27, 2008, and september 29, 2007, related to the foreign exchange forward contracts would have an $11 million and $3 million, respectively, impact on pretax income. in the future, we may enter into more foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of our international growth strategy. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 27, 2008, and september 29, 2007, 12.2% and 12.1%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 38 tyson foods, inc.risk factors 7 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine, energy and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients are major production costs for vertically-integrated poultry processors such as us, representing roughly 69% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2012 . as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can adversely affect our earnings. production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. we have cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through procurement arrangements with independent producers. we also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. 7 table of contents market supply and demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. we face competition from other food producers and processors. some of the factors on which we compete and which may drive demand for our products include: price; product safety and quality; brand identification; breadth and depth of product offerings; availability of our products and competing products; customer service; and credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors' promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs, and the availability or price of competing proteins. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2012 , we sold products to approximately 130 countries. major sales markets include brazil, canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, russia, south korea, taiwan, ukraine and vietnam. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2012 totaled $5.5 billion, of which $4.0 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $564 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, mexico and india, at the end of fiscal 2012 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs associated in complying with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states' foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. 8 table of contents negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 115,000 employees, approximately 37,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our 4.50% senior notes due june 2022 also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. 9 table of contents an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under the income approach, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the goodwill valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of september 29, 2012 , we had $1.9 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 16% of total assets. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our domestic chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the haccp program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the fda. also, our livestock procurement and poultry growout activities are regulated by the grain inspection, packers and stockyards administration, which is part of usda's marketing and regulatory programs. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, transactions ), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services, which could include material transactions. a material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. 10 table of contents disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreement to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 13.8% of our sales in fiscal 2012 . many of our agreements with our customers are short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. the consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our financial results. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. media campaigns related to food production present risks . media outlets, including new social media platforms, provide the opportunity for individuals or organizations to publicize inappropriate or inaccurate stories or perceptions about our company or the food production industry. such practices have the ability to cause damage to our brands, the industry generally, or consumers' perceptions of our company or the food production industry and may result in negative publicity and adversely affect our financial results. our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be successful. we have been exploring ways to convert animal fats and other by-products from our operations into value-added products. for example, our joint venture dynamic fuels produces renewable synthetic fuels. we will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. these initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announced or might expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, availability of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas. 11 table of contents tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of september 29, 2012 , tyson limited partnership (the tlp) owns 99.977% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.53% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 71.52% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of september 29, 2012 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the tyson partnership interest trust ( 44.44% ) and harry c. erwin, iii ( 11.115% )). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tyson family's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock, in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 29, 2012 , and october 1, 2011 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2012 2011 livestock: cattle $ 42 $ 34 hogs 37 57 grain 30 11 interest rate risk: at september 29, 2012 , we had variable rate debt of $219 million with a weighted average interest rate of 3.9%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 29, 2012 , and october 1, 2011 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at september 29, 2012 , we had fixed-rate debt of $2.2 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 5.9%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $16 million at september 29, 2012 , and $5 million at october 1, 2011 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 29, 2012 , and october 1, 2011 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $21 million and $18 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. in the future, we may enter into more foreign exchange forward and option contracts as a result of our international growth strategy. 36 table of contents concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 29, 2012 , and october 1, 2011 , 17.1% and 16.5% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine, energy and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients are major production costs for vertically-integrated poultry processors such as us, representing roughly 71% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2013 . as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can adversely affect our earnings. production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. we have cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through procurement arrangements with independent producers. we also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. 6 table of contents market supply and demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. we face competition from other food producers and processors. some of the factors on which we compete and which may drive demand for our products include: price; product safety and quality; brand identification; breadth and depth of product offerings; availability of our products and competing products; customer service; and credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors' promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs, and the availability or price of competing proteins. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2013 , we sold products to approximately 130 countries. major sales markets include brazil, canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2013 totaled $5.7 billion, of which $4.2 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $485 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, mexico and india, at the end of fiscal 2013 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef, pork and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the indian rupee and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. 7 table of contents negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 115,000 employees, approximately 38,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our 4.50% senior notes due june 2022 also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. 8 table of contents an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under the income approach, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the goodwill valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of september 28, 2013 , we had $1.9 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 16% of total assets. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our domestic chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the haccp program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the fda. also, our livestock procurement and poultry growout activities are regulated by the grain inspection, packers and stockyards administration, which is part of usda's marketing and regulatory programs. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, transactions ), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services, which could include material transactions. a material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. 9 table of contents disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreement to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 13.0% of our sales in fiscal 2013 . many of our agreements with our customers are short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. the consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our financial results. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. media campaigns related to food production present risks . media outlets, including new social media platforms, provide the opportunity for individuals or organizations to publicize inappropriate or inaccurate stories or perceptions about our company or the food production industry. such practices have the ability to cause damage to our brands, the industry generally, or consumers' perceptions of our company or the food production industry and may result in negative publicity and adversely affect our financial results. our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be successful. we have been exploring ways to convert animal fats and other by-products from our operations into value-added products. for example, our joint venture dynamic fuels produces renewable synthetic fuels. we will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. these initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announced or might expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, availability of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas. 10 table of contents tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of september 28, 2013 , tyson limited partnership (the tlp) owns 99.981% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.09% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 72.46% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of september 28, 2013 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the tyson partnership interest trust ( 44.44% ) and harry c. erwin, iii ( 11.115% )). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock, in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 28, 2013 , and september 29, 2012 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2013 2012 livestock: cattle $ 13 $ 42 hogs 35 37 grain 23 30 interest rate risk: at september 28, 2013 , we had variable rate debt of $173 million with a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 28, 2013 , and september 29, 2012 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at september 28, 2013 , we had fixed-rate debt of $2.2 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 6.0%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $22 million at september 28, 2013 , and $16 million at september 29, 2012 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the indian rupee and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 28, 2013 , and september 29, 2012 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $11 million and $21 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. in the future, we may enter into more foreign exchange forward and option contracts as a result of our international growth strategy. 35 table of contents concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 28, 2013 , and september 29, 2012 , 17.5% and 17.1% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors. 6 item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the integration of the hillshire brands company may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisition may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies . the success of the acquisition of hillshire brands, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate hillshire brands' businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisition, including cost synergies stemming from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of two large companies is complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate hillshire brands' and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the acquisition of hillshire brands' business. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the hillshire brands acquisition and refine them, so that our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost-savings, the costs required to realize the cost-savings and the source of the cost-savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost-savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost-savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the hillshire brands acquisition or could incur higher transition costs. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the hillshire brands acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as pork, beef, poultry, corn, soybean, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 68% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2014 . production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. 7 the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share would be adversely affected. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2014 , we sold products to approximately 130 countries. major sales markets include brazil, canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, south korea, taiwan, and vietnam. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2014 totaled $6.3 billion, of which $4.7 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $324 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, and india, at the end of fiscal 2014 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef, pork and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the indian rupee and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 124,000 employees, approximately 42,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. 8 we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. 9 our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes and term loans also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of september 27, 2014 , we had $ 10.8 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 45% of total assets. 10 new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. legal claims, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. failures or security breaches of our information technology systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. we have implemented technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners and have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. in addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. 11 if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 14.6% of our sales in fiscal 2014 . our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of september 27, 2014 , tyson limited partnership (the tlp) owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 1.78% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 70.14% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of september 27, 2014 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the tyson partnership interest trust ( 44.44% ) and harry c. erwin, iii ( 11.115% )). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. we could incur substantial tax liabilities as a result of the demb master blenders 1753 n.v ( demb ) spin-off. on june 28, 2012, hillshire brands divested its international coffee and tea business segment through the spin-off of demb (the spin-off ). hillshire brands intended for the spin-off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free under sections 355, 368(a)(1)(d), and 361 and related provisions of the u.s. internal revenue code, which we refer to as the code, and hillshire brands received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that the spin-off and certain related transactions, including the debt exchange, will qualify as tax-free to hillshire brands and its stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, or any material forward-looking covenants or undertakings are not complied with, then hillshire brands would not be able to rely on the ruling. in addition, the ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if the applicable law changes with retroactive effect. as a matter of practice the irs does not rule on every requirement for a tax-free spin-off or tax-free debt-for-debt exchange, and the parties relied solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements should be satisfied. the opinion of counsel relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by hillshire brands and demb which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. accordingly, even though hillshire brands obtained a ruling and a should opinion of counsel, the irs could assert that hillshire brands has not satisfied the requirements for tax-free treatment and such assertion, if successful, could result in significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities for us. 13 events subsequent to the spin-off could cause the spin-off to become taxable. under the terms of the tax sharing agreement hillshire brands entered into with demb in connection with the spin-off, demb will generally be required to indemnify hillshire brands for 100% of any taxes imposed on demb and its subsidiaries or hillshire brands and its subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of an acquisition of demb (including the acquisition of demb by j.a. benckiser), or actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by demb or any of its affiliates. however, if the spin-off or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or omissions by hillshire brands or any of its affiliates, hillshire brands would be responsible for all such taxes. in addition, hillshire brands would be responsible for 50% of any taxes resulting from the failure of the spin-off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due to actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by hillshire brands, demb or any of hillshire brands' or demb's respective subsidiaries. there can be no assurance that the tax sharing agreement will be sufficient to protect hillshire brands against any tax liabilities that may arise, or that demb will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. hillshire brands' inability to enforce the indemnification provisions of the tax sharing agreement or obtain indemnification payments in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. multiemployer pension plan could adversely affect our business. through our wholly owned subsidiary, hillshire brands, we participate in a multiemployer pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of its employees. we are required to make periodic contributions to this plan to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to this fund could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to this fund, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. the multiemployer plan in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plan, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of september 27, 2014, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 381 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 86 million at the end of fiscal 2013. the increase in the underfunded position is due to the acquisition of hillshire brands. changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 27, 2014 , and september 28, 2013 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2014 2013 livestock: cattle $ 42 $ 13 hogs 32 35 grain 10 23 interest rate risk: at september 27, 2014 , we had variable rate debt of $2.1 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 1.6%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 27, 2014 , and september 28, 2013 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at september 27, 2014 , we had fixed-rate debt of $6.1 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 4.3%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $109 million at september 27, 2014 , and $22 million at september 28, 2013 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. 42 we have interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 15: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the indian rupee and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 27, 2014 , and september 28, 2013 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $9 million and $11 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 27, 2014 , and september 28, 2013 , 18.6% and 17.5% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 43risk factors 6 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the integration of the hillshire brands company may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisition may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies . the success of the acquisition of hillshire brands, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate hillshire brands' businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisition, including cost synergies stemming from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of two large companies is complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate hillshire brands' and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the acquisition of hillshire brands' business. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. 6 we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the hillshire brands acquisition and refine them. our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost-savings, the costs required to realize the cost-savings and the source of the cost-savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost-savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost-savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the hillshire brands acquisition or could incur higher transition costs. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the hillshire brands acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as pork, beef, poultry, corn, soybean, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 64% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2015 . production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share would be adversely affected. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. 7 we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2015 , we sold products to approximately 130 countries. major sales markets include brazil, canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, south korea, and taiwan. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2015 totaled $5.2 billion, of which $4.1 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $191 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, and india, at the end of fiscal 2015 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef, pork and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the united states dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 113,000 employees, approximately 36,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment and there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further-processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. 8 changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. 9 our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of october 3, 2015 , we had $ 10.7 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 47% of total assets. new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. 10 legal claims, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. failures or security breaches of our information technology systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. we have implemented technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners and have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. in addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. 11 market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 16.8% of our sales in fiscal 2015 . our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. 12 we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of october 3, 2015 , tyson limited partnership (the tlp) owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 1.79% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 70.64% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of october 3, 2015 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the tyson partnership interest trust ( 44.44% ) and harry c. erwin, iii ( 11.115% )). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. we could incur substantial tax liabilities as a result of the demb master blenders 1753 n.v ( demb ) spin-off. on june 28, 2012, hillshire brands divested its international coffee and tea business segment through the spin-off of demb (the spin-off ). hillshire brands intended for the spin-off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free under sections 355, 368(a)(1)(d), and 361 and related provisions of the united states internal revenue code, which we refer to as the code, and hillshire brands received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that the spin-off and certain related transactions, including a debt exchange, will qualify as tax-free to hillshire brands and its stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes. although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, or any material forward-looking covenants or undertakings are not complied with, then hillshire brands would not be able to rely on the ruling. in addition, the ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if the applicable law changes with retroactive effect. as a matter of practice the irs does not rule on every requirement for a tax-free spin-off or tax-free debt-for-debt exchange, and the parties relied solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements should be satisfied. the opinion of counsel relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by hillshire brands and demb which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. accordingly, even though hillshire brands obtained a ruling and a should opinion of counsel, the irs could assert that hillshire brands has not satisfied the requirements for tax-free treatment and such assertion, if successful, could result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities for us. 13 events subsequent to the spin-off could cause the spin-off to become taxable. under the terms of the tax sharing agreement hillshire brands entered into with demb in connection with the spin-off, demb will generally be required to indemnify hillshire brands for 100% of any taxes imposed on demb and its subsidiaries or hillshire brands and its subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of an acquisition of demb (including the acquisition of demb by j.a. benckiser), or actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by demb or any of its affiliates. however, if the spin-off or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or omissions by hillshire brands or any of its affiliates, hillshire brands would be responsible for all such taxes. in addition, hillshire brands would be responsible for 50% of any taxes resulting from the failure of the spin-off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due to actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by hillshire brands, demb or any of hillshire brands' or demb's respective subsidiaries. there can be no assurance that the tax sharing agreement will be sufficient to protect hillshire brands against any tax liabilities that may arise, or that demb will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. hillshire brands' inability to enforce the indemnification provisions of the tax sharing agreement or obtain indemnification payments in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. participation in a multiemployer pension plan could adversely affect our business. through our wholly owned subsidiary, hillshire brands, we participate in a multiemployer pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of its employees. we are required to make periodic contributions to this plan to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to this fund could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to this fund, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. the multiemployer plan in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plan, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of october 3, 2015, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 410 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 381 million at the end of fiscal 2014. changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 3, 2015 , and september 27, 2014 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis included hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2015 2014 livestock: cattle $ 13 $ 42 hogs 12 32 grain 3 10 interest rate risk: at october 3, 2015 , we had variable rate debt of $ 1,057 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.5% . a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at october 3, 2015 , and september 27, 2014 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at october 3, 2015 , we had fixed-rate debt of $ 5,668 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.4% . market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $ 87 million at october 3, 2015 , and $109 million at september 27, 2014 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. we have interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 15: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at october 3, 2015 , and september 27, 2014 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $3 million and $9 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. 43 concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at october 3, 2015 , and september 27, 2014 , 20.0% and 18.6% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 44risk factors 6 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the integration of the hillshire brands company may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisition may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies . the success of the acquisition of hillshire brands, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate hillshire brands' businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisition, including cost synergies stemming from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of two large companies is complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate hillshire brands' and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the acquisition of hillshire brands' business. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. 6 we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the hillshire brands acquisition and refine them. our actual cost savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost savings, the costs required to realize the cost savings and the source of the cost savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the hillshire brands acquisition or could incur higher transition costs. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the hillshire brands acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as pork, beef, poultry, corn, soybean, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 57% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2016 . production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share would be adversely affected. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or livestock owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. 7 we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2016 , we sold products to approximately 115 countries. major sales markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, south korea and taiwan. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2016 totaled $4.1 billion, of which $3.5 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $204 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, and india, at the end of fiscal 2016 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef, pork and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the united states dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 114,000 employees, approximately 33,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. if we are unable to attract, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to attract, hire, retain and develop key employees, including our executive officers and senior management team, and maintain a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to attract and hire highly skilled employees and our own employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. competition could cause us to lose talented employees, and unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge and result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment and there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further-processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. 8 in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 9 failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of october 1, 2016 , we had $ 10.7 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 48% of total assets. new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. 10 increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. legal claims, class action lawsuits, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those contained in item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 19: commitments and contingencies in this annual report on form 10-k, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from governmental contracts that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. we are increasingly dependent on information technology, and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks, other cyber incidents or security breaches or if our information technology systems are otherwise disrupted. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of disruptions, including but not limited to the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. attempted cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. we have implemented and continue to evaluate security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended or our failure to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners, have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation and expose us to liability, litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our business partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. finally, the disclosure of non-public information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. 11 if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 17.5% of our sales in fiscal 2016 . our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, decrease in availability of water, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of october 1, 2016 , tyson limited partnership (the tlp) owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.06% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 71.18% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of october 1, 2016 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the tyson partnership interest trust ( 44.44% ) and harry c. erwin, iii ( 11.115% )). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. we could incur substantial tax liabilities as a result of the demb master blenders 1753 n.v ( demb ) spin-off. on june 28, 2012, hillshire brands divested its international coffee and tea business segment through the spin-off of demb (the spin-off ). hillshire brands intended for the spin-off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free under sections 355, 368(a)(1)(d), and 361 and related provisions of the united states internal revenue code, which we refer to as the code, and hillshire brands received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that the spin-off and certain related transactions, including a debt exchange, will qualify as tax-free to hillshire brands and its stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes. although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, or any material forward-looking covenants or undertakings are not complied with, then hillshire brands would not be able to rely on the ruling. in addition, the ruling is based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if the applicable law changes with retroactive effect. as a matter of practice the irs does not rule on every requirement for a tax-free spin-off or tax-free debt-for-debt exchange, and the parties relied solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements should be satisfied. the opinion of counsel relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by hillshire brands and demb which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. 13 the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. accordingly, even though hillshire brands obtained a ruling and a should opinion of counsel, the irs could assert that hillshire brands has not satisfied the requirements for tax-free treatment and such assertion, if successful, could result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities for us. events subsequent to the spin-off could cause the spin-off to become taxable. under the terms of the tax sharing agreement hillshire brands entered into with demb in connection with the spin-off, demb will generally be required to indemnify hillshire brands for 100% of any taxes imposed on demb and its subsidiaries or hillshire brands and its subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of an acquisition of demb (including the acquisition of demb by j.a. benckiser), or actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by demb or any of its affiliates. however, if the spin-off or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or omissions by hillshire brands or any of its affiliates, hillshire brands would be responsible for all such taxes. in addition, hillshire brands would be responsible for 50% of any taxes resulting from the failure of the spin-off and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due to actions or omissions (including breaches of certain representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement) by hillshire brands, demb or any of hillshire brands' or demb's respective subsidiaries. there can be no assurance that the tax sharing agreement will be sufficient to protect hillshire brands against any tax liabilities that may arise, or that demb will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. hillshire brands' inability to enforce the indemnification provisions of the tax sharing agreement or obtain indemnification payments in a timely manner could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. participation in a multiemployer pension plan could adversely affect our business. through our wholly owned subsidiary, hillshire brands, we participate in a multiemployer pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of its employees. we are required to make periodic contributions to this plan to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to this fund could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to this fund, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. the multiemployer plan in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plan, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of october 1, 2016 , the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 336 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 410 million at the end of fiscal 2015 . changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 1, 2016 , and october 3, 2015 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis included hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2016 2015 livestock: live cattle $ 5 $ 13 lean hogs 7 12 grain: corn 26 3 soy meal 8 42 interest rate risk: at october 1, 2016 , we had variable rate debt of $ 1,357 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.8% . a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at october 1, 2016 , and october 3, 2015 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at october 1, 2016 , we had fixed-rate debt of $4,922 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.3% . market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $ 71 million at october 1, 2016 , and $87 million at october 3, 2015 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. we have interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 14: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at october 1, 2016 , and october 3, 2015 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $3 million impact on pretax income. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at october 1, 2016 , and october 3, 2015 , 18.9% and 20.0% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 43risk factors 6 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as beef, pork, poultry, corn, soybean, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 55% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2017 . production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. 6 over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products (including distribution channels used, such as e-commerce) and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and the supply and demand for our products. supply of and demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or livestock owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. the integration of advancepierre may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisition may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies. the success of the acquisition of advancepierre, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate advancepierre's businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisition, including cost synergies arising from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of two large companies is complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate advancepierre's and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the acquisition of advancepierre. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the advancepierre acquisition and refine them. our actual cost savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost savings, the costs required to realize the cost savings and the source of the cost savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost savings. 7 finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the advancepierre acquisition in a timely manner or at all or could incur higher transition costs than anticipated. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the advancepierre acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of our financial fitness program, which may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, our board of directors approved a multi-year restructuring program (the financial fitness program ), which is expected to contribute to the company's overall strategy of financial fitness through increased operational effectiveness and overhead reduction. for more information regarding this program, refer to the heading overview set forth in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. the success of the financial fitness program, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully implement the program in an efficient and effective manner. the implementation of the financial fitness program may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and the financial fitness program may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits. if we are unable to implement the financial fitness program smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture the anticipated savings, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. in addition, we may incur higher costs associated with reductions in overhead than anticipated, and the reduction in overhead could result in performance shortfalls. the financial fitness program may become a distraction for our organization and may disrupt our ongoing business operations; cause deterioration in employee morale; disrupt or weaken the internal control structures of the affected business operations; and result in negative publicity which could affect our corporate reputation. if we are unable to successfully manage the negative consequences of the financial fitness program, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be adversely affected. we may experience difficulties in implementing an enterprise resource planning system over the next few years. we are engaged in a multi-year implementation of an enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the erp system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that this system will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, produce financial reports, or otherwise operate our business. as we implement our new erp system, our exposure to system attacks may be elevated because we will be running old and new processes in parallel and must simultaneously protect both the new system and legacy systems. if we are unable to implement the erp system smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture anticipated benefits, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. additionally, our implementation of the erp system may involve greater utilization of third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. problems faced by us or our third-party cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2017 , we sold products to approximately 117 countries. major sales markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, south korea and taiwan. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2017 totaled $4.5 billion, of which $3.9 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $217 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, european union and india, at the end of fiscal 2017 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of beef, pork, poultry, and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of beef, pork, and poultry products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the united states dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; 8 different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 122,000 employees, approximately 35,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. if we are unable to attract, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to attract, hire, retain and develop key employees, including our executive officers and senior management team, and maintain a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to attract and hire highly skilled employees and our own employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. competition could cause us to lose talented employees, and unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge and result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our financial results and damage our reputation. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment and there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further-processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 9 we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences, purchasing behaviors and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want in the channels where they shop. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, such as adapting to emerging e-commerce channels, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. 10 our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates, ebitda multiples, and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach. the income approach is based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of september 30, 2017 , we had $ 13.4 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 48% of total assets. new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. legal claims, class action lawsuits, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those contained in item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 20: commitments and contingencies in this annual report on form 10-k, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from governmental contracts that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. 11 the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. we are increasingly dependent on information technology, and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks, other cyber incidents or security breaches or if our information technology systems are otherwise disrupted. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of disruptions, including but not limited to the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. attempted cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. we have implemented and continue to evaluate security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended or our failure to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners, have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation and expose us to liability, litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our business partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. finally, the disclosure of non-public information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. 12 additionally, from time to time, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability and margins. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability. our divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties separating personnel and financial and other systems, possible need for providing transition services to buyers, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers. any of these factors could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. on april 24, 2017, we announced our intent to sell three non-protein businesses, sara lee frozen bakery, kettle and van's , which are all a part of our prepared foods segment, as part of our strategic focus on protein-packed brands. we anticipate we will close the transactions by the end of calendar 2017. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 17.3% of our sales in fiscal 2017 . our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. alternative retail channels, such as convenience stores, dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and internet-based retailers have increased their market share. this trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 13 extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, decrease in availability of water, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels or unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers' ability to purchase our products, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. participation in a multiemployer pension plan could adversely affect our business. through our wholly owned subsidiary, hillshire brands, we participate in a multiemployer pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of its employees. we are required to make periodic contributions to this plan to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to this fund could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to this fund, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. the multiemployer plan in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plan, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of september 30, 2017 , tyson limited partnership (the "tlp") owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.07% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 70.78% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of september 30, 2017 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the donald j. tyson revocable trust (44.44%) and harry c. erwin, iii (11.115%)). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. 14 volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of september 30, 2017 , the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 195 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 336 million at the end of fiscal 2016 . changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 30, 2017 , and october 1, 2016 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis included hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. 43 effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2017 2016 livestock: live cattle $ 23 $ 5 lean hogs 16 7 grain: corn 17 26 soy meal 13 8 interest rate risk: at september 30, 2017 , we had variable rate debt of $2,756 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.9% . a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 30, 2017 , and october 1, 2016 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at september 30, 2017 , we had fixed-rate debt of $ 7,447 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% . market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $ 150 million at september 30, 2017 , and $71 million at october 1, 2016 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. we have interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 15: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 30, 2017 , and october 1, 2016 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $7 million and $3 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 30, 2017 , and october 1, 2016 , 18.6% and 18.9% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 44risk factors 7 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as beef, pork, poultry, corn, soybean, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 56% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2018 . 7 production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products (including distribution channels used, such as e-commerce) and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and the supply and demand for our products. supply of and demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or livestock owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. the integration of recent acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisition may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies. the success of recent acquisitions, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisitions, including cost synergies arising from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of large companies is complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate these businesses and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. 8 furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to recent acquisitions. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from recent acquisitions and refine them. our actual cost savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost savings, the costs required to realize the cost savings and the source of the cost savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the recent acquisitions in a timely manner or at all or could incur higher transition costs than anticipated. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of our financial fitness program, which may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, our board of directors approved a multi-year restructuring program (the financial fitness program ), which is expected to contribute to the company's overall strategy of financial fitness through increased operational effectiveness and overhead reduction. for more information regarding this program, refer to the heading overview set forth in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. the success of the financial fitness program, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully implement the program in an efficient and effective manner. the implementation of the financial fitness program may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and the financial fitness program may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits. if we are unable to implement the financial fitness program smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture the anticipated savings, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. in addition, we may incur higher costs associated with reductions in overhead than anticipated, and the reduction in overhead could result in performance shortfalls. the financial fitness program may become a distraction for our organization and may disrupt our ongoing business operations; cause deterioration in employee morale; disrupt or weaken the internal control structures of the affected business operations; and result in negative publicity which could affect our corporate reputation. if we are unable to successfully manage the negative consequences of the financial fitness program, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be adversely affected. we may experience difficulties in implementing an enterprise resource planning system over the next few years. we are engaged in a multi-year implementation of an enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the erp system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that this system will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, produce financial reports, or otherwise operate our business. as we implement our new erp system, our exposure to system attacks may be elevated because we will be running old and new processes in parallel and must simultaneously protect both the new system and legacy systems. if we are unable to implement the erp system smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture anticipated benefits, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. additionally, our implementation of the erp system may involve greater utilization of third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. problems faced by us or our third-party cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2018 , we sold products to approximately 125 countries. major sales markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, south korea and taiwan. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2018 totaled $4.8 billion, of which $4.2 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $212 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, european union and new zealand, at the end of fiscal 2018 . 9 as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of beef, pork, poultry, and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of beef, pork, and poultry products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the united states dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 121,000 employees, approximately 33,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. if we are unable to attract, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to attract, hire, retain and develop key employees, including our executive officers and senior management team, and maintain a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to attract and hire highly skilled employees and our own employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. competition could cause us to lose talented employees, and unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge and result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our financial results and damage our reputation. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment and there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further-processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. 10 changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences, purchasing behaviors and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want in the channels where they shop. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, such as adapting to emerging e-commerce channels, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. 11 our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates, ebitda multiples, and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach. the income approach is based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of september 29, 2018 , we had $13.8 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 47% of total assets. new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. 12 legal claims, class action lawsuits, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those contained in item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 20: commitments and contingencies in this annual report on form 10-k, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from governmental contracts that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. we are increasingly dependent on information technology, and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks, other cyber incidents or security breaches or if our information technology systems are otherwise disrupted. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of disruptions, including but not limited to the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. attempted cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. we have implemented and continue to evaluate security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended or our failure to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners, have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation and expose us to liability, litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our business partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. finally, the disclosure of non-public information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. 13 if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. in august 2018, the company announced it had reached a definitive agreement to buy the keystone foods business ( keystone ) from marfrig global foods for $2.16 billion in cash. the acquisition of keystone, a major supplier to the growing global foodservice industry, is our latest investment in furtherance of our growth strategy and expansion of our value-added protein capabilities. the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter or early second quarter of fiscal 2019 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, however, there can be no assurance that the acquisition will close at such time. additionally, from time to time, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability and margins. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability. our divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties separating personnel and financial and other systems, possible need for providing transition services to buyers, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers. any of these factors could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that are not hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. 14 the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, walmart inc., which accounted for 17.3% of our sales in fiscal 2018 . our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. alternative retail channels, such as convenience stores, dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and internet-based retailers have increased their market share. this trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, decrease in availability of water, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels or unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers' ability to purchase our products, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. participation in a multiemployer pension plan could adversely affect our business. through our wholly owned subsidiary, hillshire brands, we participate in a multiemployer pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of its employees. we are required to make periodic contributions to this plan to allow it to meet its pension benefit obligations to its participants. our required contributions to this fund could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to this fund, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. the multiemployer plan in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plan, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. 15 tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of september 29, 2018 , tyson limited partnership (the "tlp") owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.09% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 70.96% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of september 29, 2018 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the donald j. tyson revocable trust (44.44%) and harry c. erwin, iii (11.115%)). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of september 29, 2018 , the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 162 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 195 million at the end of fiscal 2017 . changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. the announcement and pendency of the keystone acquisition could impact or cause disruptions in our and keystone's businesses. specifically: our and keystone's current and prospective customers and suppliers may experience uncertainty associated with the keystone acquisition, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us, keystone or the combined business and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business; our and keystone's employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which may adversely affect our and keystone's ability to retain and hire key employees; if the keystone acquisition is completed, the accelerated vesting of equity-based awards and payment of change in control benefits to some members of keystone's management on completion of the keystone acquisition could result in increased difficulty or cost in retaining keystone's officers and employees; and the attention of our management and that of keystone may be directed toward the completion and implementation of the keystone acquisition and transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of the respective companies. in connection with the keystone acquisition, we could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the keystone acquisition, as described in more detail below. the keystone acquisition may not be successful. we recently announced our entry into a share purchase agreement to acquire keystone. risks associated with the keystone acquisition include the risk that the transaction may not be consummated, the risk that regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to certain conditions that are not anticipated, litigation risk associated with claims or potential claims brought by shareholders of keystone to enjoin the transaction or seek monetary damages, and risks associated with our ability to issue debt to fund a portion of the purchase price. 16 if the keystone acquisition is consummated, we may be unable to successfully integrate keystone's operations or to realize targeted cost savings, revenues and other benefits of the keystone acquisition. we entered into the share purchase agreement for keystone because we believe that the keystone acquisition will be beneficial to us and our stockholders. achieving the targeted benefits of the keystone acquisition will depend in part upon whether we can integrate keystone's businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. we and keystone operate numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance. moreover, the integration of our respective operations will require the dedication of significant management resources, which is likely to distract management's attention from day-to-day operations. employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business and result in undesired employee attrition. an inability of management to successfully integrate the operations of the two companies could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the combined businesses. in addition, we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the keystone acquisition and refine them, so that our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost-savings, the costs required to realize the cost savings and the source of the cost-savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost-savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost-savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the keystone acquisition or could incur higher transition costs. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the keystone acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the keystone acquisition. we expect to incur significant costs associated with the keystone acquisition and combining the operations of the two companies, including costs to achieve targeted cost-savings. the substantial majority of the expenses resulting from the keystone acquisition will be composed of transaction costs related to the keystone acquisition, systems consolidation costs, and business integration and employment-related costs, including costs for severance, retention and other restructuring. we may also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies' businesses. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities related to interest rates are recorded in interest expense. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 29, 2018 , and september 30, 2017 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis included hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2018 2017 livestock: live cattle $ 12 $ 23 lean hogs 4 16 grain: corn 26 17 soy meal 26 13 interest rate risk: at september 29, 2018 , we had variable rate debt of $ 1,655 million with a weighted average interest rate of 2.6% . a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 29, 2018 , and september 30, 2017 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at september 29, 2018 , we had fixed-rate debt of $ 8,218 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% . market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $ 207 million at september 29, 2018 , and $150 million at september 30, 2017 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. in fiscal 2018, as part of our risk management activities, we executed derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps, to hedge a portion of our exposure to changes in interest rates. at september 29, 2018 , the total notional amount of interest rate swaps remaining outstanding was $400 million. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have a minimal effect on interest expense. 43 we are subject to interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 15: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 29, 2018 , and september 30, 2017 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $9 million and $7 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 29, 2018 , and september 30, 2017 , 18.6% of our net accounts receivable balance was due from walmart inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 44risk factors 8 risk factors. 7 item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as beef, pork, poultry, corn, soybean, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 55% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2019 . production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products (including distribution channels used, such as e-commerce) and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and the supply and demand for our products. supply of and demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or livestock owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. 8 the integration of recent acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisitions may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies. the success of recent acquisitions, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisitions, including cost synergies arising from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of large businesses is complex, and requires us to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate these businesses and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; language and translation difficulties; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to recent acquisitions. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from recent acquisitions and refine them. our actual cost savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost savings, the costs required to realize the cost savings and the source of the cost savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the recent acquisitions in a timely manner or at all or could incur higher transition costs than anticipated. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of our financial fitness program, which may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, our board of directors approved a multi-year restructuring program (the financial fitness program ), which is expected to contribute to the company's overall strategy of financial fitness through increased operational effectiveness and overhead reduction. for more information regarding this program, refer to the heading overview set forth in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. the success of the financial fitness program, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully implement the program in an efficient and effective manner. the implementation of the financial fitness program may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and the financial fitness program may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits. if we are unable to implement the financial fitness program smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture the anticipated savings, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. in addition, we may incur higher costs associated with reductions in overhead than anticipated, and the reduction in overhead could result in performance shortfalls. the financial fitness program may become a distraction for our organization and may disrupt our ongoing business operations; cause deterioration in employee morale; disrupt or weaken the internal control structures of the affected business operations; and result in negative publicity which could affect our corporate reputation. if we are unable to successfully manage the negative consequences of the financial fitness program, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be adversely affected. 9 we may experience difficulties in implementing an enterprise resource planning system over the next few years. we are engaged in a multi-year implementation of an enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the erp system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that this system will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, produce financial reports, or otherwise operate our business. as we implement our new erp system, our exposure to system attacks may be elevated because we will be running old and new processes in parallel and must simultaneously protect both the new system and legacy systems. if we are unable to implement the erp system smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture anticipated benefits, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. additionally, our implementation of the erp system involves greater utilization of third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. problems faced by us or our third-party cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign locations, as well as our operations and assets in such locations. in fiscal 2019 , we sold products to customers in approximately 145 countries. major sales markets include australia, canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, malaysia, mexico, chile, the middle east, the netherlands, south korea, taiwan and thailand. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2019 totaled $5.4 billion , of which $4.1 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $1,107 million of long-lived assets located in foreign locations, primarily brazil, china, the european union and new zealand, at the end of fiscal 2019 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of beef, pork, poultry, and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of beef, pork, and poultry products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the united states dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen, the thai baht, the malaysian ringgit and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 141,000 employees, approximately 39,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. if we are unable to attract, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to attract, hire, retain and develop key employees, including our executive officers and senior management team, and maintain a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to attract and hire highly skilled employees and our own employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. competition could cause us to lose talented employees, and unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge and result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees. 10 we depend on contract farmers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract farmers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with farmers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our financial results and damage our reputation. our products may be subject to contamination by foreign materials or disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment and there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further-processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences, purchasing behaviors and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want in the channels where they shop. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, such as adapting to emerging e-commerce channels, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. 11 our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates, ebitda multiples, and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using an income approach. the income approach is based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates, amongst other assumptions. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. 12 as of september 28, 2019 , we had $14.9 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 45% of total assets. new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us (including the united kingdom's potential exit from the european union) could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. legal claims, class action lawsuits, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those contained in item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 20: commitments and contingencies in this annual report on form 10-k, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from governmental contracts that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. we are increasingly dependent on information technology, and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks, other cyber incidents or security breaches or if our information technology systems are otherwise disrupted. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of disruptions, including but not limited to the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. attempted cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. 13 we have implemented and continue to evaluate security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended or our failure to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners, have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation and expose us to liability, litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our business partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. finally, the disclosure of non-public information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates; consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key employees; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. additionally, from time to time, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability and margins. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability. our divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties separating personnel and financial and other systems, possible need for providing transition services to buyers, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers. any of these factors could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that are not hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; 14 negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, walmart inc., which accounted for 16.9% of our sales in fiscal 2019 . our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. alternative retail channels, such as convenience stores, dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and internet-based retailers have increased their market share. this trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, decrease in availability of water, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels or unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers' ability to purchase our products, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. participation in multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in several multiemployer pension plans that provide defined benefits to certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. these plans are typically administered by boards of trustees composed of the management of the participating companies and labor representatives. we are required to make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in these plans, then applicable law could require us to make additional lump-sum contributions to the plans, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plans' funding of vested benefits. two of the multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plans, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. 15 tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of september 28, 2019 , tyson limited partnership (the "tlp") owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value ("class b stock") and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.15% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value ("class a stock"), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 70.97% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of september 28, 2019 , mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the donald j. tyson revocable trust (44.44%) and harry c. erwin, iii (11.115%)). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of september 28, 2019 , the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 240 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 162 million at the end of fiscal 2018 . changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be offset either against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities related to interest rates are recorded in interest expense. changes in the market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities related to foreign exchange contracts are recorded in other, net. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of september 28, 2019 and september 29, 2018 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis included hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. 40 effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2019 2018 livestock: live cattle $ 19 $ 12 lean hogs 17 4 grain: corn 39 26 soy meal 31 26 interest rate risk: at september 28, 2019 , we had variable rate debt of $1,875 million with a weighted average interest rate of 2.5%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at september 28, 2019 , and september 29, 2018 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at september 28, 2019 , we had fixed-rate debt of $10,057 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.42%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $184 million at september 28, 2019 , and $207 million at september 29, 2018 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. we have $400 million total notional amount of interest rate swaps at september 28, 2019 as part of our risk management activities to hedge a portion of our exposure to changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have a minimal effect on interest expense. we are subject to interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 15: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances as well as revenues and expenses. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the thai baht, the malaysian ringgit, the european euro, the japanese yen, the new zealand dollar, the australian dollar and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at september 28, 2019 and september 29, 2018 , related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have a $15 million and $9 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at september 28, 2019 and september 29, 2018 , 16.2% and 18.6% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from walmart inc. no other single customer or customer group represented 10% or greater of net accounts receivable. 41risk factors 8 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. business &amp; operational risk factors the outbreak of the covid-19 global pandemic and associated responses has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations. the covid-19 pandemic has negatively affected, and is expected to continue to negatively affect, many parts of our business and operations and has had and continues to have a negative impact on economic activity globally. in response to the covid-19 pandemic, various jurisdictions have attempted to implement or have implemented measures designed to contain the spread of the virus, including travel restrictions, stay-at-home or shelter-in-place orders and shutdowns of non-essential businesses. certain regions in the united states are currently experiencing a resurgence in the covid-19 pandemic, which may result in the continuation or expansion of such measures. these actions and the broader economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the extent of future impacts of the covid-19 pandemic on general economic conditions and on our business, operations and results of operations remains uncertain. we have experienced, and may experience in the future, slowdowns and temporary idling of certain of our production facilities due to a number of factors, including implementing additional safety measures, testing of our team members, team member absenteeism, and governmental orders. during fiscal 2020, we experienced slowdowns and temporary idling of production facilities. we anticipate we may experience additional volatility in our ability to operate our facilities at full utilization rates, depending on the factors detailed above. while the idling and slowdowns impacted our results of operations, additional or prolonged idling of facilities or an extended period of operating at a reduced capacity or more significant reductions in our operations at our facilities could have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our business and on our results of operations. 8 we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, an increase in operating costs in connection with higher costs associated with ensuring the continued health and safety of team members including by checking team members' temperatures, providing additional personal protective equipment, deep cleaning facilities, and encouraging sick team members to stay home by providing enhanced team member benefits. during fiscal 2020, we incurred direct incremental expenses related to covid-19 totaling approximately $540 million, which primarily included team member costs associated with worker availability and production facility downtime, and direct costs for personal protective equipment, production facility sanitization, covid-19 testing, donations, product downgrades, rendered product, professional fees and thank you bonuses to frontline team members. we expect to continue to incur significantly increased operating costs related to worker health and safety measures, which have had, and will likely continue to have, a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. there can be no assurance that the health and safety measures we have taken (which include adding temperature and symptom screening stations for employees prior to entering our facilities and increasing physical distancing of our employees) will eradicate the risks associated with working in a critical infrastructure industry, including but not limited to, infection of our employees or the temporary closure of a facility, which could, in turn, have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. workforce limitations and travel restrictions resulting from covid-19 and related government actions adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, many aspects of our business. a number of our team members at various facilities have tested positive for covid-19. these team members, and in some cases those working in close contact with diagnosed persons, are required to be quarantined, which has led to a decrease in our available workforce in various locations. the decrease in our available workforce has at times adversely impacted our ability to operate our business effectively. if a significant percentage of our workforce is unable to work, including because of illness, travel or government restrictions in connection with covid-19, this could have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. in addition, certain of our team members who claim to have tested positive for covid-19, or their family members, have filed lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for wrongful death and personal injury claims in several states. we expect additional team members or family members of team members may assert similar claims as the covid-19 pandemic continues. if we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we may experience significant losses and expenses in connection with these lawsuits, which could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. we have also experienced, and expect to continue to experience, disruption and volatility in our supply chain, which has resulted, and may continue to result, in increased costs for certain raw materials. the spread of covid-19 has also disrupted and may continue to disrupt logistics necessary to import, export, and deliver products to us and our customers. ports and other channels of entry have been closed or were operating at only a portion of capacity, as workers have been prohibited or otherwise unable to report to work, and means of transporting products within regions or countries may be limited for the same reason. other supply chain risks associated with the covid-19 pandemic include but are not limited to shutdowns or reduced operations at our suppliers' facilities, the continued inability of some of our contract producers to manage their livestock, supply chain disruptions for feed grains, changes in consumer orders due to shifting consumer patterns, changes in livestock and protein market prices, and additional disruptions in logistics or the distribution chain for our products. in addition, our operations, or those of independent contract poultry producers and producers who provide the live animals to our production operations, may become more limited in their ability to procure, deliver, or produce our food products because of transport restrictions related to quarantines or travel bans and the closure of certain of our production facilities. as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we have experienced, and continue to experience, a significant shift in demand for our products from foodservice to retail channels, as schools and in-dining restaurants have closed across the united states and other countries. these shifts in demand and other impacts from covid-19 have adversely impacted our business, as volume increases in our retail channels have not fully offset the losses in foodservice channels. we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, temporary idling of facilities or reduction of certain of our production capacity that service the foodservice channel in connection with this change in demand. a prolonged shutdown of schools and in-dining restaurants could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. many large school districts throughout the united states are holding classes remotely and may continue to hold classes remotely. if school districts within our foodservice channels continue to hold classes remotely, we anticipate we will experience a continued shift away from our foodservice channels, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in addition, in the event of a protracted period of economic downturn, demand for our foodservice products may remain below expectations or decrease further, and demand for our retail consumption products may also decrease, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. governmental authorities at the federal, state and local levels may increase or impose new or stricter social distancing directives, stay-at-home restrictions, travel bans, quarantines, workforce and workplace restrictions or other measures related to covid-19. such actions could cause us to continue to incur additional costs. we also face other risks associated with the covid-19 pandemic, including: continued commodity cost volatility, which may add volatility to our costs and expenses; additional increase in input cost may not be adequately captured through pricing; an increase in consumer demand in our retail channel, such as grocery stores, club stores, and value stores, which has and may continue to strain our supply chain; 9 an increase in working capital needs and/or an increase in trade accounts receivable write-offs (and associated reserves) as a result of increased financial pressures on our suppliers or customers who are not able to pay in a timely manner or at all; a decrease in demand resulting from restrictions on public gatherings and interactions that limit the opportunity for our customers and consumers to purchase and consume our products; adverse changes to the global economy may subject us to risk of material intangible and long-lived asset impairments, adjustments for inventory and market volatility for items subject to fair value measurements such as derivatives and investments; a need to preserve liquidity, which could result in a reduction or suspension of our quarterly dividend or delays in implementing or an inability to implement our strategic planning initiatives; an inability to access our preferred sources of liquidity, including commercial paper and investment grade credit markets, which could negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition; a credit rating downgrade of our corporate debt and an increase in the cost or the difficulty to obtain debt or equity financing, or to refinance our debt in the future, could affect our financial condition or our ability to fund operations or future investment opportunities; an inability to effectively implement our marketing and advertising activities to reflect changing consumer shopping habits due to, among other things, reduced in-person shopping and travel restrictions; a shift in consumer spending as a result of an economic downturn, which could result in consumers moving to private label or lower price products; litigation; and a continued decrease in demand at restaurants or other away from home dining, which adversely affects our foodservice business. the severity and duration of the current covid-19 pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response are unknown and are impossible to predict with certainty. any of these disruptions could adversely impact our business and results of operations. the integration of recent acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the acquisitions may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies. the success of recent acquisitions, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisitions, including cost synergies arising from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of large businesses is complex and requires us to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate these businesses and tyson's business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company's business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key team members, which could adversely impact the combined company's future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; language and translation difficulties; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to recent acquisitions. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from recent acquisitions and refine them. our actual cost savings could differ materially from our current estimates. actual cost savings, the costs required to realize the cost savings and the source of the cost savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost savings on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost savings programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. in light of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost savings. finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted operating or long-term strategic benefits of the recent acquisitions in a timely manner or at all or could incur higher transition costs than anticipated. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of our financial fitness program, which may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, our board of directors approved a multi-year restructuring program (the 2017 program ), which is expected to contribute to the company's overall strategy of financial fitness through increased operational effectiveness and overhead reduction. in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the company approved a restructuring program (the "2020 program"), which is expected to contribute to the company's overall strategy of financial fitness through the elimination of overhead and consolidation of certain enterprise functions. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the company extended the 2020 program as it identified additional opportunities to eliminate overhead by optimizing organizational structures and other activities. for more information regarding this program, refer to part ii, item 8. notes to the consolidated financial statements, note 7: restructuring and related charges. the success of the financial fitness programs, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend in part on our ability to successfully implement the program in an efficient and effective manner. the implementation of the financial fitness programs may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and the financial fitness programs may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits. if we are unable to implement the financial fitness programs smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture the anticipated savings, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. in addition, we may incur higher costs associated with reductions in overhead than anticipated, and the reduction in overhead could result in performance shortfalls. the financial fitness programs may become a distraction for our organization and may disrupt our ongoing business operations; cause deterioration in team member morale; disrupt or weaken the internal control structures of the affected business operations; and result in negative publicity which could affect our corporate reputation. if we are unable to successfully manage the negative consequences of the financial fitness programs, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be adversely affected. we may experience difficulties in implementing an enterprise resource planning system over the next few years. we are engaged in a multi-year implementation of an enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. during fiscal 2019, we implemented the primary phase and the implementation will continue in additional phases through fiscal 2021. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the erp system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that this system will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, produce financial reports, or otherwise operate our business. as we implement our new erp system, our exposure to system attacks may be elevated because we will be running old and new processes in parallel and must simultaneously protect both the new system and legacy systems. if we are unable to implement the erp system smoothly or successfully, or we otherwise do not capture anticipated benefits, our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods could be negatively impacted. additionally, our implementation of the erp system involves greater utilization of third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. problems faced by us or our third-party cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods. we are subject to risks associated with our international activities, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign locations, as well as our operations and assets in such locations. in fiscal 2020 , we sold products to customers in approximately 145 countries. major sales markets include australia, canada, central america, chile, china, the european union, the united kingdom, japan, mexico, malaysia, the middle east, south korea, taiwan and thailand . our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2020 totaled $6.0 billion of which $4.0 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $1,287 million of long-lived assets located in foreign locations, primarily brazil, china, the european union and new zealand, at the end of fiscal 2020 . as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of beef, pork, poultry, and prepared foods products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of beef, pork, and poultry products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the united states dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the japanese yen, the thai baht, the malaysian ringgit and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs to comply with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control; 11 different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we are increasingly dependent on information technology, and our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks, other cyber incidents or security breaches or if our information technology systems are otherwise disrupted. information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. we also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. in addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of disruptions, including but not limited to the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. attempted cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. we have implemented and continue to evaluate security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended or our failure to timely identify or appropriately respond to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our team members and our business partners, have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation and expose us to liability, litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our business partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. finally, the disclosure of non-public information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. similar risks exist with respect to the third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. if we pursue strategic acquisitions or divestitures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. acquisitions and joint ventures involve financial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; difficulty identifying suitable candidates; consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; challenges in retaining the acquired businesses' customers and key team members; inability to implement and maintain consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. additionally, from time to time, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability and margins. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability. our divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties separating personnel and financial and other systems, possible need for providing transition services to buyers, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers. any of these factors could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of october 3, 2020, tyson limited partnership (the "tlp") owns 99.985% of the outstanding shares of the company's class b common stock, $0.10 par value ("class b stock") and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.23% of the outstanding shares of the company's class a common stock, $0.10 par value ("class a stock"), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 71.06% of the total voting power of the company's outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of october 3, 2020, mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the donald j. tyson revocable trust (44.44%) and harry c. erwin, iii (11.115%)). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tlp's significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we are eligible for controlled company exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. industry risk factors fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the selling prices for our products, are dependent upon the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials such as beef, pork, poultry, corn, soybean meal, packaging materials and energy and, to a lesser extent, cheese, fruit, seasoning blends, flour, corn syrup, corn oils, butter and sugar. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients, for instance, represented roughly 53% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2020 . production and pricing of these commodities are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. such factors include, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, outbreaks of disease, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. volatility in our commodity and raw material costs directly impact our gross margin and profitability. the company's objective is to offset commodity price increases with pricing actions over time. however, we may not be able to increase our product prices enough to sufficiently offset increased raw material costs due to consumer price sensitivity or the pricing postures of our competitors. in addition, if we increase prices to offset higher costs, we could experience lower demand for our products and sales volumes. conversely, decreases in our commodity and other input costs may create pressure on us to decrease our prices. while we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodities prices. over time, if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, to offset operating cost increases with continuous improvement savings or are not successful in our commodity hedging program, then commodity and raw material price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. the food industry in general is intensely competitive. we face competition from other food producers and processors that have various product ranges and geographic reach. some of the factors on which we compete include: pricing, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of our products (including distribution channels used, such as e-commerce) and competing products, customer service, and credit terms. from time to time in response to these competitive pressures or to maintain market share, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products or increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and promotions and new product innovation. such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices to offset cost increases, could harm our profit margins. if we reduce prices but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset the price changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. alternatively, if we do not reduce our prices and our competitors seek advantage through pricing or promotional changes, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. 13 outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and the supply and demand for our products. supply of and demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or livestock owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. changes in consumer preference and failure to maintain favorable consumer perception of our brands and products could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products or ingredients or loss of confidence in the food safety system generally could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of iconic brands with significant value. maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products and maintain our brand image through marketing investment could adversely impact our operating results. our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences, purchasing behaviors and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want in the channels where they shop. we devote significant resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. to the extent we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, such as adapting to emerging e-commerce channels, our financial results and our competitive position will suffer. in addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. we also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing investments, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spend. due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children, which may limit our ability to maintain or extend our brand image. if we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers' plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, walmart inc., which accounted for 18.7% of our sales in fiscal 2020. our retail customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and if they do sign contracts, they generally are limited in scope and duration. there can be no assurance that significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. alternative retail channels, such as convenience stores, dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and internet-based retailers have increased their market share. this trend towards alternative channels is expected to continue in the future. if we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to, or adverse change to trade terms with, a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. failure to leverage our brand value propositions to compete against private label products, especially during economic downturn, may adversely affect our profitability. in many product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label products that generally are sold at lower prices. consumers are more likely to purchase our products if they believe that our products provide a higher quality and greater value than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our brands and private label products narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products at prices that are profitable for us. in addition, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more lower-priced private label or other economy brands. to the extent this occurs, we could experience a reduction in the sales volume of our higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. in addition, in times of economic uncertainty, consumers reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at our foodservice customers, which in turn reduces our product sales. labor &amp; employment risk factors we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our team members. we have approximately 139,000 team members, approximately 36,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with team members and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our team members or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. if we are unable to attract, hire or retain key team members or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our continued growth requires us to attract, hire, retain and develop key team members, including our executive officers and senior management team, and maintain a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to attract and hire highly skilled team members and our own team members are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. competition could cause us to lose talented team members, and unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge and result in increased costs due to increased competition for team members. we depend on contract farmers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract farmers to raise the live chickens and turkeys processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with farmers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. 15 legal &amp; regulatory risk factors if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our financial results and damage our reputation. our products may be subject to contamination by foreign materials or disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment and there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further-processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we may be required to recall some of our products if they spoil, become contaminated, are tampered with or are mislabeled. a widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. such a product recall also could result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. new or more stringent domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs on us and could adversely affect our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. see environmental regulation and food safety in item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information. changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us (including the united kingdom's exit from the european union) could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. for example, increased governmental interest in advertising practices may result in regulations that could require us to change or restrict our advertising practices. increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. we use natural gas, diesel fuel and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. in addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. legal claims, class action lawsuits, other regulatory enforcement actions, or failure to comply with applicable legal standards or requirements could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our team members, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those contained in item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 21: commitments and contingencies in this annual report on form 10-k, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, including debarment from governmental contracts that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. our past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to our business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future that will require additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our financial results. 16 financial risk factors our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, term loan facility and commercial paper program, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit ratings (or any decrease to our credit ratings) could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum debt to capitalization ratios. our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. an impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates, ebitda multiples, and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated principally using income and market approaches. the income approach is based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. the market approach measures value based on what other purchasers in the market have paid for assets or business interests that can be considered reasonably similar to each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. indefinite life intangible asset valuations have been calculated principally using relief-from-royalty and excess earnings approaches and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under these valuation approaches, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate sales, operating margins, growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates, amongst other assumptions. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of october 3, 2020 , we had $15.0 billion of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, which represented approximately 43% of total assets. participation in multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business. we participate in several multiemployer pension plans that provide defined benefits to certain team members covered by collective bargaining agreements. these plans are typically administered by boards of trustees composed of the management of the participating companies and labor representatives. we are required to make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. in the event that we withdraw from participation in these plans, then applicable law could require us to make additional lump-sum contributions to the plans, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of the plans' funding of vested benefits. two of the multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. in the event a withdrawal or partial withdrawal was to occur with respect to the multiemployer plans, the impact to our consolidated financial statements could be material. 17 volatility in the capital markets or interest rates could adversely impact our pension costs and the funded status of our pension plans. we sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for team members in the united states. the difference between plan obligations and assets, which signifies the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the pension plans and our ongoing funding requirements. as of october 3, 2020 , the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans was an underfunded position of $ 234 million , as compared to an underfunded position of $ 240 million at the end of fiscal 2019 . changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of the plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and our future funding requirements. the exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that are not hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. general risk factors deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, decrease in availability of water, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels or unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers' ability to purchase our products, among other things. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our trade secrets, patents and copyrights, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. we cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. we cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. in addition, even if such rights are obtained in the united states, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument's change in fair value is recognized immediately. further, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily forwards and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. we generally do not hedge anticipated transactions beyond 18 months. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 3, 2020 and september 28, 2019 , on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted forward and option prices. the market risk exposure analysis included both derivatives designated as hedge instruments and derivatives not designated as hedge instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2020 2019 livestock: live cattle $ 24 $ 19 lean hogs 19 17 grain: corn 23 39 soybean meal 28 31 45 interest rate risk: at october 3, 2020 , we had variable rate debt of $1,521 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.8%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at october 3, 2020 , and september 28, 2019 , would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at october 3, 2020 , we had fixed-rate debt of $9,818 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.42%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $108 million at october 3, 2020 , and $184 million at september 28, 2019 . the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. we are subject to interest rate risk associated with our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. changes in interest rates impact the liabilities associated with these benefit plans as well as the amount of income or expense recognized for these plans. declines in the value of the plan assets could diminish the funded status of the pension plans and potentially increase the requirements to make cash contributions to these plans. see part ii, item 8, notes to consolidated financial statements, note 16: pensions and other postretirement benefits for additional information. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currencies we have exposure to are the australian dollar, the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, the malaysian ringgit, the mexican peso, and the thai baht. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have had a $54 million and $15 million impact on pretax income at october 3, 2020 and september 28, 2019 , respectively. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at october 3, 2020 and september 28, 2019 , 16.5% and 16.2% , respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from walmart inc. no other single customer or customer group represented 10% or greater of net accounts receivable. 46risk factors 7 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine, energy and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn and soybean meal are major production costs for vertically-integrated poultry processors such as us, representing roughly 42% of our cost of growing a chicken in fiscal 2010. as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can adversely affect our earnings. production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. we have cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through procurement arrangements with independent producers. we also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. 7 table of contents market demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. we face competition from other food producers and processors. some of the factors on which we compete and which may drive demand for our products include: price; product safety and quality; brand identification; breadth and depth of product offerings; availability of our products; customer service; and credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs, and the availability or price of competing proteins. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2010, we exported to more than 100 countries. major export markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, russia, south korea, taiwan and vietnam. our export sales for fiscal 2010 totaled $3.2 billion. in addition, we had approximately $364 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, mexico and india, at the end of fiscal 2010. as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling, and the brazilian real; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. 8 table of contents negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 115,000 employees, approximately 36,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our capital stock; amend material documents; change the nature of our business; make certain payments of debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. if availability under this facility is less than the greater of 15% of the commitments and $150 million, we will be required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. our 10.50% senior notes due march 2014 also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; make certain investments and restricted payments; create liens; create restrictions on distributions from restricted subsidiaries; engage in specified sales of assets and subsidiary stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter new lines of business; engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions. 9 table of contents an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under the income approach, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the goodwill valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of october 2, 2010, we had $1.9 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 17.6% of total assets. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the haccp program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the fda. also, our livestock procurement and poultry growout activities are regulated by the grain inspection, packers and stockyards administration (gipsa), which is part of usda marketing and regulatory programs. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. we have recently completed acquisitions and entered into joint venture agreements and periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, transactions ), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services, which could include material transactions. a material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. 10 table of contents disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreement to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 13.4% of our sales in fiscal 2010. many of our agreements with our customers are short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. the consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our financial results. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be as successful as we expect. we have been exploring ways to commercialize animal fats and other by-products from our operations, as well as the poultry litter of our contract growers, to generate energy and other value-added products. for example, in fiscal 2007, we announced the formation of dynamic fuels llc, a joint venture with syntroleum corporation. we will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. these initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announced or would expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, possible discontinuance of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas. members of the tyson family can exercise significant control. members of the tyson family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 99.97% of our outstanding shares of class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and 2.42% of our outstanding shares of class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them control of approximately 70% of the total voting power of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, three members of the tyson family serve on our board of directors. as a result, members of the tyson family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tyson family significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we rely on the controlled company exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. 37 table of contents commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock, in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 2, 2010, and october 3, 2009, on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2010 2009 livestock: cattle $39 $20 hogs 42 12 grain 10 1 interest rate risk: at october 2, 2010, we had variable rate debt of $212 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.5%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at october 2, 2010, and october 3, 2009, would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at october 2, 2010, we had fixed-rate debt of $2.3 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 9.2%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $9 million at october 2, 2010, and $32 million at october 3, 2009. the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges we have exposure to are the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the mexican peso, the european euro, the british pound sterling and the brazilian real. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at october 2, 2010, and october 3, 2009, related to the foreign exchange forward contracts would have a $17 million and $15 million, respectively, impact on pretax income. in the future, we may enter into more foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of our international growth strategy. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at october 2, 2010, and october 3, 2009, 15.3% and 13.0%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors. item 1a. risk factors these risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and other inputs could negatively impact our earnings. our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine, energy and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients are major production costs for vertically-integrated poultry processors such as us, representing roughly 69% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2011. as a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can adversely affect our earnings. production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural and energy policies of domestic and foreign governments. we have cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. we have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. we also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. the majority of our live swine supply is obtained through procurement arrangements with independent producers. we also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for processing. in addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. 7 table of contents market supply and demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors. we face competition from other food producers and processors. some of the factors on which we compete and which may drive demand for our products include: price; product safety and quality; brand identification; breadth and depth of product offerings; availability of our products and competing products; customer service; and credit terms. demand for our products also is affected by competitors promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs, and the availability or price of competing proteins. we attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. if we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins. outbreaks of livestock diseases can adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. demand for our products can be adversely impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. however, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. this could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. we are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries. in fiscal 2011, we sold products to more than 130 countries. major sales markets include canada, central america, china, the european union, japan, mexico, the middle east, russia, south korea, taiwan and vietnam. our sales to customers in foreign countries for fiscal 2011 totaled $5.5 billion, of which $4.1 billion related to export sales from the united states. in addition, we had approximately $539 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily brazil, china, mexico and india, at the end of fiscal 2011. as a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the importation of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries; closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues; impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, and the mexican peso; political and economic conditions; difficulties and costs associated in complying with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the united states foreign corrupt practices act and economic and trade sanctions enforced by the united states department of the treasury office of foreign assets control; different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; tax rates that may exceed those in the united states and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. 8 table of contents negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we operate or in other developing markets and could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. we have approximately 115,000 employees, approximately 36,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the labor unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. we depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. we contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. a majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. if we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. if our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes, salmonella and e. coli. these organisms and pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk that one or more, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. these organisms and pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. these risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. we have little, if any, control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. we are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our capital stock; amend material documents; change the nature of our business; make certain payments of debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. in addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum leverage ratios. our 10.50% senior notes due march 2014 also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; make certain investments and restricted payments; create liens; create restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries; engage in specified sales of assets and subsidiary stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter new lines of business; engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions. 9 table of contents an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. in assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management judgment in applying these factors. goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. under the income approach, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the goodwill valuations. we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. these types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. as of october 1, 2011, we had $1.9 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 17.1% of total assets. domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling and export of our products. our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. our chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the haccp program and are subject to the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002. in addition, our products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the usda and the fda. also, our livestock procurement and poultry growout activities are regulated by the grain inspection, packers and stockyards administration, which is part of usda marketing and regulatory programs. loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. a material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, transactions ), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services, which could include material transactions. a material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. we may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. if we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. these positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. while these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. 10 table of contents disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things: make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and make more difficult or expensive the granting of any amendment of, or waivers under, our credit agreement to the extent we may seek them in the future; impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; negatively impact global demand for protein products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets; negatively impact our commodity purchasing activities if we are required to record losses related to derivative financial instruments; or impair the financial viability of our insurers. changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. the food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. the loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. our business could suffer significant setbacks in sales and operating income if our customers plans and/or markets change significantly or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, wal-mart stores, inc., which accounted for 13.3% of our sales in fiscal 2011. many of our agreements with our customers are short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. the consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the united states and in other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our financial results. extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be successful. we have been exploring ways to convert animal fats and other by-products from our operations into value-added products. for example, in fiscal 2007, we announced the formation of dynamic fuels, a joint venture with syntroleum corporation. we will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. these initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announced or might expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, possible discontinuance of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas. tyson limited partnership can exercise significant control. as of october 1, 2011, tyson limited partnership (the tlp) owns 99.97% of the outstanding shares of class b common stock, $0.10 par value (class b stock) and the tlp and members of the tyson family own, in the aggregate, 2.45% of the outstanding shares of class a common stock, $0.10 par value (class a stock), giving them, collectively, control of approximately 70.74% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting stock. at this time, the tlp does not have a managing general partner, and, as such, the management rights of the managing general partner may be exercised by a majority of the percentage interests of the general partners. as of october 1, 2011, mr. john tyson, chairman of the board of directors, has 33.33% of the general partner percentage interests, and ms. barbara tyson, a director of the company, has 11.115% general partner percentage interests (the remaining general partnership interests are held by the tyson partnership interest trust (44.44%) and harry c. erwin, iii (11.115%)). as a result of these holdings, positions and directorships, the partners in the tlp have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated 11 table of contents certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. this concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. additionally, as a result of the tyson family significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we rely on the controlled company exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk relating to our operations results primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. to address certain of these risks, we enter into various derivative transactions as described below. if a derivative instrument is accounted for as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument either will be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the ineffective portion of an instrument change in fair value is recognized immediately. additionally, we hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures that either do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges. with the exception of normal purchases and normal sales that are expected to result in physical delivery, we record these positions at fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities relating to forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. changes in market value of derivatives used in our risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. the sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. commodities risk: we purchase certain commodities, such as grains and livestock, in the course of normal operations. as part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. however, as the commodities underlying our derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark-to-market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. contracts designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of october 1, 2011, and october 2, 2010, on the fair value of open positions. the fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. the market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non-hedge derivative financial instruments. effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2011 2010 livestock: cattle $ 34 $ 39 hogs 57 42 grain 11 10 37 table of contents interest rate risk: at october 1, 2011, we had variable rate debt of $211 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.1%. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates effective at october 1, 2011, and october 2, 2010, would have a minimal effect on interest expense. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. at october 1, 2011, we had fixed-rate debt of $2.0 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 9.2%. market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would have increased the fair value of our fixed-rate debt by approximately $5 million at october 1, 2011, and $9 million at october 2, 2010. the fair values of our debt were estimated based on quoted market prices and/or published interest rates. foreign currency risk: we have foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily as a result of certain receivable and payable balances. the primary currency exchanges we have exposure to are the brazilian real, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the chinese renminbi, the european euro, and the mexican peso. we periodically enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge some portion of our foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates effective at october 1, 2011, and october 2, 2010, related to the foreign exchange forward and option contracts would have an $18 million and $17 million impact, respectively, on pretax income. in the future, we may enter into more foreign exchange forward and option contracts as a result of our international growth strategy. concentrations of credit risk: our financial instruments exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. our cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to our large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. we perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require collateral. at october 1, 2011, and october 2, 2010, 16.5% and 15.3%, respectively, of our net accounts receivable balance was due from wal-mart stores, inc. no other single customer or customer group represented greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 38 table of contents