risk factors 11 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business we face the following risks in connection with the general conditions and trends of our industry and the end markets we serve. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth. the markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological change. our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. there are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure each year to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 2% to 4%. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to the development cycles. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. 11 divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition to our announced divestiture of power systems, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate their supply base. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace and defense industries. as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. we are dependent on the automotive industry. approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 were to customers in the automotive industry. the automotive market is dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. in addition, as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability could be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automobile manufacturers. demand for our automotive products also is linked to consumer demand for automobiles, which may be adversely affected by negative trends in consumer demand. we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 19% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change. these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers who can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our failure to do so would materially impair our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. approximately 10% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends primarily on underlying business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products. the amount of this demand and therefore our sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including the rate of technological change, degree of consumer acceptance of new products, and general economic conditions. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. 12 cyclical industry and economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on the end-market industry dynamics for our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by the cyclical demand patterns of these markets. for example, the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. the aerospace and defense industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, has similarly undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. these periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, and zinc. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including copper and gold, has increased dramatically in recent years. over the last three years, we have only been able partially to offset these increases through higher selling prices. our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 67% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 were derived from sales in non-u.s. markets, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. we also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. 13 our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, and human resource skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets is found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. we are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the united states. non-u.s. markets account for a substantial portion of our business. during fiscal 2007, non-u.s. markets constituted over 67% of our net sales. we employ more than 77% of our workforce outside the united states. our customers are located throughout the world and we have many manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities outside the united states. because of our extensive non-u.s. operations, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; longer payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as compared to the united states, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held abroad; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. many of our products that are manufactured outside of the united states are manufactured in asia. in particular, we have sizeable operations in china, including manufacturing operations, and in fiscal 2007 12% of our net sales were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still 14 developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and non-u.s. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. environmental laws outside of the united states are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. 15 our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction on hazardous substances, end of life vehicle and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. we cannot predict the extent to which these laws will proliferate in other jurisdictions or expand to address other materials or other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, and product liability. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facilities and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. our indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to repurchase the notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. 16 downgrades of our debt ratings could adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's, standard &amp; poor's, and fitch may increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. future acquisitions may not be successful. we will continue to investigate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offering. we cannot assure you, however, that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement or that we will not pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the size and importance of the patent or trademark in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. risks relating to our separation from tyco international our historical combined financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical combined financial information for periods prior to our separation from tyco international does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the following factors: prior to our separation, our business was operated by tyco international as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent, publicly-traded company. in addition, prior to our separation, tyco international and its affiliates performed significant corporate functions for us, including tax and treasury administration and certain governance functions, including internal audit and external reporting. our historical combined financial statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from tyco international for these and similar functions. 17 our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically were satisfied as part of the company-wide cash management practices of tyco international. as an independent company, we must obtain financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing, and business operations because we are operating as a company separate from tyco international. we are responsible for a portion of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities, including those relating to shareholder litigation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien ltd. ("covidien"), and tyco international have agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation, any actions with respect to the separation plan or the distribution brought by any third party and tax liabilities for periods prior to and including the distribution date, june 29, 2007. for more information on the contingent tax liabilities, see "we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date." contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which were allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. many lawsuits are outstanding against tyco international, some of which relate to actions taken by tyco international's former senior corporate management. on may 14, 2007, tyco international entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of its outstanding securities class action litigation. we do not believe that it is feasible to predict the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. although we will share any costs and expenses arising out of this litigation and any settlement thereof with tyco international and covidien, a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms or an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings or liabilities or other proceedings for which we have assumed joint and several liability under the separation and distribution agreement could be material with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in any given reporting period. tyco international has the right to control the defense and settlement of the class action settlement and other outstanding litigation, subject to certain limitations. the timing, nature, and amount of the class action settlement or any other settlement may not be in our best interests. furthermore, in the event of any subsequent settlement, we may have limited notice before we would be required to pay our portion of the settlement amount. moreover, tyco international stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that we, tyco international, and covidien each will be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations arising from the tyco international shareholder litigation. the stipulation also provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties are jointly and severally liable for the defaulting party's obligations. in accordance with the stipulation, we, covidien, and tyco international agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of the obligations arising from the tyco international shareholder litigation. 18 we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, tyco international and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, have become our tax liabilities. although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that we have assessed as probable and estimable have been reflected as a liability in the consolidated and combined financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with the uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of tax liabilities. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. 19 the ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of common shares, options, or other equity awards of tyco international or covidien may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. because of their former positions with tyco international, substantially all of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, and one of our non-employee directors, own common shares of tyco international, options to purchase common shares of tyco international, or other tyco international equity awards, as well as common shares, options to purchase common shares, and other equity awards of covidien. the individual holdings of common shares, options to purchase common shares, or other equity awards of tyco international and covidien may be significant for some of these persons compared to their total assets. these equity interests may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could benefit or affect the equity holders of tyco international or covidien in ways that do not benefit or affect us in the same manner. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, covidien, and tyco international regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, covidien, or tyco international, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, covidien, or tyco international as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, covidien, or tyco international, then we, covidien, and tyco international would be responsible for 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, covidien, or tyco international as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. 20 in some cases, we might have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with tyco international and covidien. the agreements related to our separation from tyco international and covidien, including the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement, were negotiated in the context of our separation from tyco international while we were still part of tyco international and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. the separation agreements were approved in consideration of the best interests of tyco international's shareholders and may conflict with the interests of our securityholders. if we fail to comply with the requirements of section 404 of sarbanes-oxley, our business prospects and the value of our securities could be adversely affected. under the rules and regulations of the sec, we are not required to comply with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 until we file our annual report on form 10-k for our fiscal year ending september 26, 2008, so long as we continue to meet the definition of a non-accelerated filer. in our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ending september 26, 2008, management and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to comply with these obligations or experience delays in reports of our management and outside auditors on our internal control over financial reporting, we might be unable to file timely with the sec our annual or periodic reports and might be subject to regulatory and enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange ("nyse"), including delisting from the nyse, securities litigation, events of default under our credit agreements, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect the value of our securities and could adversely affect our business prospects. subsequent to the filing of our combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement on form 10 with the sec, we determined that our combined financial statements contained certain errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. we substantially relied upon the processes at tyco international to prepare our carve-out accounts for income taxes. we have determined that certain of those tax processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. concurrently, we determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate and have concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to income taxes. as of september 28, 2007, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded the material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes has not been fully remediated. we are continuing to build our tax accounting resources and capabilities to remediate this material weakness, and are implementing new control processes and procedures as part of our efforts to become compliant with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution by tyco international. similar limitations and restrictions apply to covidien and tyco international. the distribution may result in corporate level taxable gain to tyco international under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, covidien's common shares, or tyco 21 international's common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of tyco international's common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, covidien's common shares, or tyco international's common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, covidien, or tyco international may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of tyco international's common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, covidien's common shares, or tyco international's common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, tyco international would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of covidien or tyco international or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving, or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. covidien and tyco international are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax-favored transaction under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our securityholders. risks relating to our jurisdictions of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. tax legislation we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions or companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. in october 2004, the u.s. congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to us. we continue to assess the impact of the potential for u.s. federal legislative proposals relating to deductible payments from u.s. subsidiaries to foreign parents, as well as the impact of a recently released u.s. treasury department study. concern about such deductible payments could result in tax proposals being introduced or modified in the u.s. congress in the future and we 22 cannot assure you that these proposals would not have adverse effects on us if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. legislation relating to governmental contracts various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. the u.s. federal government and various states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. we are unable to predict whether the final form of the proposed legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to the u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact on us of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company also may agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of our securities may have more 23 difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. risks relating to our common shares the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; and overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. investors may be unable to accurately value our common shares. investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of comparable companies. currently, no public company exists that is directly comparable to our size, scale and product offerings. for these reasons, investors may find it difficult to accurately value our common shares, which may cause our common shares to trade below our true value. certain provisions of our bye-laws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that you might consider favorable. our bye-laws contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these bye-law provisions: shareholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors; shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent; shareholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at shareholder meetings; restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination (including an amalgamation under bermuda law) between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors; and our board of directors may without shareholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a shareholder rights plan. these provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. risk factors." there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective is to manage our foreign currency exposures on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 28, 2007 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $59 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $72 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 29, 2006 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $6 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $8 million. however, such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of the 69 fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of the variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). at september 28, 2007, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. based on our floating rate debt balance of $1,250 million at september 28, 2007, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. see note 14 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. item 8. financial statements and supplementary data the following consolidated and combined financial statements and schedule specified by this item, together with the report thereon of deloitte &amp; touche llp, are presented following item 15 and the signature pages of this report: financial statements: report of independent registered public accounting firm consolidated and combined statements of operations for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 consolidated and combined balance sheets at september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 consolidated and combined statements of equity for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 consolidated and combined statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 notes to consolidated and combined financial statements financial statement schedule: schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts all other financial statements and schedules have been omitted since the information required to be submitted has been included in the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes or because they are either not applicable or not required under the rules of regulation s-x. item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures none. item 9a. controls and procedures this annual report does not include a report of management's assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the company's registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the sec for newly public companies. under the rules and regulations of the sec, we are not required to comply with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 until we file our annual report on form 10-k for our fiscal year ending september 26, 2008, so long as we continue to meet the definition of a non-accelerated filer. in our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ending september 26, 2008, management and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an assessment as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 70 our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rule 13a-15(e) under the exchange act) as of september 28, 2007. disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. in our information statement filed as exhibit 99.1 to our current report on form 8-k on june 8, 2007, we disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. as a result of this material weakness, which was not remediated as of september 28, 2007, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of september 28, 2007. we are continuing to build our tax accounting resources and capabilities to remediate this material weakness, and are implementing new control processes and procedures as part of our efforts to become compliant with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although we have taken several steps to strengthen controls, we continue to develop improvements to our control processes, including: enhancing policies and procedures relating to tax account reconciliation and analysis; augmenting tax accounting resources and ensuring adequate training; reinforcing requirements for tax jurisdiction specific information with internal information providers; and further integrating tax processes with the company's information systems. item 9b. other information none. 71 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information concerning directors, executive officers and corporate governance may be found under the captions "proposal number one: election of directors," "nominees for election," "corporate governance," "the board of directors and board committees," and "executive officers" in our definitive proxy statement for our 2008 annual general meeting of shareholders (the "2008 proxy statement"), which will be filed with the sec within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year. such information is incorporated herein by reference. the information in the 2008 proxy statement set forth under the caption "section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance" is incorporated herein by reference. code of ethics we have adopted the tyco electronics guide to ethical conduct, which applies to all employees, officers, and directors of tyco electronics. our guide to ethical conduct meets the requirements of a "code of ethics" as defined by item 406 of regulation s-k and applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and chief accounting officer, as well as all other employees and directors, as indicated above. our guide to ethical conduct also meets the requirements of a code of business conduct and ethics under the listing standards of the nyse. our guide to ethical conduct is posted on our website at www.tycoelectronics.com under the heading "who we are quick links guide to ethical conduct." we also will provide a copy of our guide to ethical conduct to shareholders upon request. we intend to disclose any amendments to our guide to ethical conduct, as well as any waivers for executive officers or directors, on our website. item 11. executive compensation information concerning executive compensation may be found under the captions "compensation discussion and analysis," "management development and compensation committee report," "executive officer compensation," "compensation of non-employee directors," and "compensation committee interlocks and insider participation" in our 2008 proxy statement. such information is incorporated herein by reference. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information in our 2008 proxy statement set forth under the caption "security ownership of certain beneficial owners, directors and executive officers" is incorporated herein by reference. see "part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities equity compensation plan information" for information about securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information in our 2008 proxy statement set forth under the captions "corporate governance," "the board of directors and board committees," and "certain relationships and related transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information in our 2008 proxy statement set forth under the captions "proposal number two: appointment of independent auditor and authorization of audit committee to set remuneration of independent auditor," "fees paid to independent auditor," and "policy for the pre-approval of audit and non-audit services" is incorporated herein by reference. 72 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements. see item 8. 2. financial statement schedules. see item 8. 3. exhibit index: exhibit number description 2.1 separation and distribution agreement among tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 2.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 3.1 memorandum of association of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to amendment no. 3 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed june 5, 2007) 3.2 certificate of incorporation of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.2 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed january 18, 2007) 3.3 amended and restated bye-laws of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 4.1 (a) indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007* 4.1 (b) first supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007* 4.1 (c) second supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007* 4.1 (d) third supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007* 4.2 exchange and registration rights agreement among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and goldman, sachs &amp; co. and ubs securities llc, as representatives of the purchasers, dated as of september 25, 2007* 10.1 tax sharing agreement among tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.2 364-day senior bridge loan agreement among tyco international ltd., tyco international group s.a., tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd., the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, dated as of april 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.3 amendment no. 1 to 364-day senior bridge loan agreement among tyco international ltd., tyco international group s.a., tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd., the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, dated as of may 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 73 10.4 guarantor assumption agreement between tyco international ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.5 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.5 amendment no. 2 to 364-day senior bridge loan agreement among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd., the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, dated as of august 31, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed august 31, 2007) 10.6 five-year senior credit agreement among tyco international ltd., tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd., the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, dated as of april 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.7 guarantor assumption agreement between tyco international ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.6 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.8 tyco electronics ltd. 2007 stock and incentive plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form s-8, filed july 5, 2007) 10.9 tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form s-8, filed july 5, 2007) 10.10 form of founders' grant option award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.7 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.11 form of option award terms and conditions * 10.12 form of founders' grant restricted unit award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.8 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.13 form of restricted unit award terms and conditions * 10.14 tyco electronics ltd. change in control severance plan for certain u.s. officers and executives (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.15 tyco electronics ltd. severance plan for u.s. officers and executives (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.16 tyco electronics ltd. deferred compensation plan for directors * 10.17 tyco electronics corporation supplemental savings and retirement plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.18 employment agreement between tyco electronics logistics ag and juergen gromer, dated as of october 1, 1999 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to amendment no. 3 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed june 5, 2007) 10.19 retention agreement between tyco electronics ltd. and juergen gromer, dated march 22, 2006 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.5 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed january 18, 2007) 74 10.20 settlement agreement between tyco electronics amp gmbh, tyco electronics logistics ag, tyco international ltd. and juergen gromer, dated april 10, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.9 to amendment no. 1 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed april 20, 2007) 10.21 employment agreement between tyco electronics ltd. and terrence curtin, dated november 14, 2006 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.5 to amendment no. 3 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed june 5, 2007) 10.22 retention agreement between tyco electronics ltd. and terrence curtin, dated may 26, 2006 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.6 to amendment no. 3 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed june 5, 2007) 10.23 tyco electronics ltd. uk savings related share plan * 10.24 form of indemnification agreement (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.9 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 21.1 subsidiaries of tyco electronics ltd.* 23.1 consent of independent registered public accounting firm* 24.1 power of attorney* 31.1 certification by the chief executive officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* 31.2 certification by the chief financial officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* 32.1 certification by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* * filed herewith management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. (b) see item 15(a)3. above. (c) see item 15(a)2. above. 75 signatures pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. tyco electronics ltd. by: /s/ terrence r. curtin terrence r. curtin executive vice president and chief financial officer (principal financial officer) date: december 14, 2007 pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. signature title date /s/ thomas j. lynch thomas j. lynch chief executive officer and director (principal executive officer) december 14, 2007 /s/ terrence r. curtin terrence r. curtin executive vice president and chief financial officer (principal financial officer) december 14, 2007 /s/ robert j. ott robert j. ott senior vice president and corporate controller (principal accounting officer) december 14, 2007 * pierre r. brondeau director december 14, 2007 * ram charan director december 14, 2007 * juergen w. gromer director december 14, 2007 * robert m. hernandez director december 14, 2007 76 signature title date * daniel j. phelan director december 14, 2007 * frederic m. poses director december 14, 2007 * lawrence s. smith director december 14, 2007 * paula a. sneed director december 14, 2007 * david p. steiner director december 14, 2007 * sandra s. wijnberg director december 14, 2007 * robert a. scott, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document on behalf of the above noted individuals, pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by such individuals, which have been filed as exhibit 24.1 to this report. by: /s/ robert a. scott robert a. scott attorney-in-fact 77 tyco electronics ltd. index to consolidated and combined financial statements page report of independent registered public accounting firm 79 consolidated and combined statements of operations for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 81 consolidated and combined balance sheets as of september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 82 consolidated and combined statements of equity for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 83 consolidated and combined statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 84 notes to consolidated and combined financial statements 85 schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts 150 78 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the tyco electronics ltd. board of directors: we have audited the accompanying consolidated and combined balance sheets of tyco electronics ltd. and subsidiaries (the "company") as of september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 and the related consolidated and combined statements of operations, equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended september 28, 2007. our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. these consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and combined financial statements are free of material misstatement. the company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. accordingly, we express no such opinion. an audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated and combined financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated and combined financial position of the company as of september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended september 28, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated and combined financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, prior to its separation from tyco international ltd. ("tyco international"), the company was comprised of the assets and liabilities used in managing and operating the electronics businesses of tyco international. the combined financial statements also included allocations of corporate overhead, net class action settlement costs, other expenses, debt and related interest expense from tyco international. these allocations may not be reflective of the actual level of costs or debt which would have been incurred had the company operated as a separate entity apart from tyco international. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2007, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 158, employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r). as discussed in note 13 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in connection with its separation from tyco international, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments with tyco international and covidien ltd. and has recorded the fair value of these guarantees. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2006, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r, share-based payment . 79 as discussed in notes 2 and 15 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2005, the company changed the measurement date of its pension and post retirement plans from september 30 to august 31. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp december 14, 2007 philadelphia, pennsylvania 80 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of operations fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 13,460 $ 12,300 $ 11,433 cost of sales 10,012 8,999 8,334 gross income 3,448 3,301 3,099 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,664 1,524 1,403 allocated class action settlement costs, net 887 separation costs 45 restructuring and other charges (credits), net 99 13 (10 ) goodwill impairment 316 gain on divestiture (301 ) income from operations 753 1,448 2,007 interest income 53 48 44 interest expense (231 ) (256 ) (293 ) other expense, net (219 ) (365 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 356 1,240 1,393 income taxes (494 ) (46 ) (376 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) (6 ) (loss) income from continuing operations (144 ) 1,188 1,011 (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (410 ) 13 122 (loss) income before cumulative effect of accounting change (554 ) 1,201 1,133 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) 11 net (loss) income $ (554 ) $ 1,193 $ 1,144 basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share: (loss) income from continuing operations $ (0.29 ) $ 2.39 $ 2.03 (loss) income from discontinued operations (0.82 ) 0.03 0.25 (loss) income before cumulative effect of accounting change (1.11 ) 2.42 2.28 cumulative effect of accounting change (0.02 ) 0.02 net (loss) income $ (1.11 ) $ 2.40 $ 2.30 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: basic and diluted 497 497 497 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 81 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined balance sheets as of september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions, except share data) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 936 $ 469 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $60 and $59, respectively 2,686 2,434 inventories 2,047 1,850 class action settlement escrow 928 class action settlement receivable 2,064 prepaid expenses and other current assets 672 447 deferred income taxes 325 368 assets held for sale 215 982 total current assets 9,873 6,550 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,505 3,076 goodwill 7,177 7,135 intangible assets, net 554 576 deferred income taxes 1,397 1,501 receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 844 other assets 338 253 total assets $ 23,688 $ 19,091 liabilities and equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt, including amounts due to tyco international ltd. and affiliates of $285 at september 29, 2006 $ 5 $ 291 accounts payable 1,382 1,251 class action settlement liability 2,992 accrued and other current liabilities 1,450 1,307 deferred revenue 191 155 liabilities held for sale 165 145 total current liabilities 6,185 3,149 long-term debt and obligations under capital lease, including amounts due to tyco international ltd. and affiliates of $3,225 at september 29, 2006 3,373 3,371 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 607 491 deferred income taxes 271 380 income taxes 1,242 190 other liabilities 618 334 total liabilities 12,296 7,915 commitments and contingencies (note 16) minority interest 15 16 equity: preferred shares, $0.20 par value, 125,000,000 shares authorized; none outstanding common shares, $0.20 par value, 1,000,000,000 authorized; 497,423,476 issued and outstanding at september 28, 2007 99 capital in excess: share premium 13 contributed surplus 10,027 parent company investment 10,490 accumulated earnings 186 accumulated other comprehensive income 1,052 670 total equity 11,377 11,160 total liabilities and equity $ 23,688 $ 19,091 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 82 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of equity fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 common shares share premium contributed surplus parent company investment accumulated earnings accumulated other comprehensive income total equity comprehensive income shares amount (in millions) balance at october 1, 2004 $ $ $ $ 7,751 $ $ 491 $ 8,242 comprehensive income: net income 1,144 1,144 $ 1,144 currency translation (87 ) (87 ) (87 ) unrealized loss on marketable securities, net of income taxes (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) minimum pension liability, net of income taxes (72 ) (72 ) (72 ) total comprehensive income $ 984 reporting calendar alignment, net of income taxes (21 ) (21 ) net transfers from former parent 637 637 balance at september 30, 2005 9,511 331 9,842 comprehensive income: net income 1,193 1,193 $ 1,193 currency translation 242 242 242 minimum pension liability, net of income taxes 97 97 97 total comprehensive income $ 1,532 net transfers to former parent (214 ) (214 ) balance at september 29, 2006 10,490 670 11,160 comprehensive income: net (loss) income (810 ) 256 (554 ) $ (554 ) currency translation 453 453 453 minimum pension liability, net of income taxes 207 207 207 impact of adoption of sfas no. 158, net of tax (225 ) (225 ) unrealized loss on cash flow hedge (53 ) (53 ) (53 ) total comprehensive income $ 53 net transfers from former parent 848 848 transfer of parent company investment to contributed surplus 10,528 (10,528 ) guarantees and shared tax liabilities to tyco international and covidien in accordance with the tax sharing agreement (296 ) (296 ) due from tyco international and covidien in accordance with the tax sharing agreement 844 844 income tax liabilities assumed upon separation (1,091 ) (1,091 ) issuance of common shares 497 99 99 compensation expense, including charge related to tyco international equity award conversion 44 44 dividends declared (70 ) (70 ) exercise of share options 13 13 repurchase of common shares (2 ) (2 ) balance at september 28, 2007 497 $ 99 $ 13 $ 10,027 $ $ 186 $ 1,052 $ 11,377 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 83 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of cash flows fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net (loss) income $ (554 ) $ 1,193 $ 1,144 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 410 (13 ) (122 ) cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes 8 (11 ) (loss) from continuing operations (144 ) 1,188 1,011 adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by operating activities: allocated class action settlement costs, net 887 non-cash restructuring and other charges (credits), net 26 6 (16 ) gain on divestiture (301 ) depreciation and amortization 535 484 490 deferred income taxes 162 (51 ) (54 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 84 70 75 allocated loss on retirement of debt 232 365 goodwill impairment 316 other (31 ) 9 10 changes in assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisitions and divestitures: accounts receivable, net (95 ) (134 ) (484 ) inventories (124 ) (334 ) 49 other current assets (108 ) (65 ) 43 accounts payable 87 262 188 accrued and other liabilities 105 91 23 income taxes (125 ) (179 ) 135 deferred revenue 28 (5 ) 48 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 25 45 other 19 (18 ) (81 ) net cash provided by operating activities 1,538 1,665 1,546 net cash used in discontinued operating activities (13 ) (2 ) (35 ) cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (892 ) (555 ) (476 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 72 12 23 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (23 ) (12 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (3 ) (3 ) (8 ) class action settlement escrow (928 ) proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operation, net of cash retained by business sold 227 proceeds from divestiture of business, net of cash retained by business sold 130 other 26 61 net cash used in investing activities (1,524 ) (543 ) (282 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (4 ) (96 ) (4 ) cash flows from financing activities: debt proceeds 5,676 allocated debt activity (3,743 ) (731 ) (1,330 ) repayment of debt (2,455 ) (113 ) (114 ) net transactions with former parent 1,112 (74 ) 85 transfers (to) from discontinued operations (181 ) 2 (16 ) minority interest distributions paid (7 ) (12 ) (12 ) other 5 (4 ) (1 ) net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 407 (932 ) (1,388 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 24 104 35 effect of currency translation on cash 46 (1 ) 11 net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 474 195 (117 ) less: net (increase) decrease in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (7 ) (6 ) 4 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 469 280 393 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ 936 $ 469 $ 280 supplementary cash flow information: interest paid $ 231 $ 262 $ 295 income taxes paid, net of refunds 454 276 295 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 84 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements 1. separation and basis of presentation the separation effective june 29, 2007, tyco electronics ltd. ("tyco electronics" or the "company"), a company organized under the laws of bermuda, became the parent company of the former electronics businesses of tyco international ltd. ("tyco international"). on june 29, 2007, tyco international distributed all of its shares of tyco electronics, as well as its shares of its former healthcare businesses ("covidien"), to its common shareholders (the "separation"). basis of presentation the accompanying consolidated and combined financial statements reflect the consolidated operations of tyco electronics ltd. and its subsidiaries as an independent, publicly-traded company as of and subsequent to june 29, 2007 and a combined reporting entity comprising the assets and liabilities used in managing and operating the electronics businesses of tyco international, including tyco electronics ltd., for periods prior to june 29, 2007. the consolidated and combined financial statements have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"). the preparation of the consolidated and combined financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to make use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. significant estimates in these consolidated and combined financial statements include restructuring and other charges and credits, acquisition liabilities, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, estimates of future cash flows associated with asset impairments, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, loss contingencies, net realizable value of inventories, estimated contract revenue and related costs, legal liabilities, tax reserves and deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for pension and postretirement employee benefit expenses. actual results could differ materially from these estimates. the consolidated and combined financial statements for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007 may not be indicative of the company's future performance and do not necessarily reflect what its consolidated and combined results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would have been had it operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented, including changes in the company's capitalization as a result of the separation from tyco international. to the extent that an asset, liability, revenue, or expense is directly associated with the company, it is reflected in the accompanying consolidated and combined financial statements. certain general corporate overhead, net class action settlement costs, and other expenses as well as debt and related net interest expense for periods prior to the separation have been allocated by tyco international to the company. management believes such allocations were reasonable; however, they may not be indicative of the actual results of the company had the company been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. see note 17 for further information regarding allocated expenses. description of the business the company consists of four reportable segments: electronic components. the electronic components segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of passive electronic components, which includes connectors and interconnect systems, relays, switches, circuit protection devices, touchscreens, sensors, and wire and cable. the 85 products sold by the electronic components segment are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their contract manufacturers in the automotive, computer, consumer electronics, communication equipment, appliance, aerospace and defense, industrial machinery, and instrumentation markets. network solutions. the network solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for telecommunications and energy markets. these components include connectors, above- and below-ground enclosures, heat shrink tubing, cable accessories, surge arrestors, fiber optic cabling, copper cabling, and racks for copper and fiber networks. this segment also provides electronic systems for test access and intelligent cross-connect applications as well as integrated cabling solutions for cabling and building management. wireless systems. the wireless systems segment is an innovator of wireless technology for critical communications, radar, and defense applications. the segment's products include radio frequency components and subassembly solutions such as silicon and gallium arsenide semiconductors, radar sensors, radio frequency identification components, microwave subsystems, and diodes and land mobile radio systems and related products. these products are sold primarily to the aerospace and defense, public safety, communication equipment, and automotive markets. undersea telecommunications. the undersea telecommunications segment designs, builds, maintains, and tests undersea fiber optic networks for both the telecommunications and oil and gas markets. principles of consolidation the company consolidates entities in which it owns or controls more than fifty percent of the voting shares or otherwise has the ability to control through similar rights. in addition, the company consolidates variable interest entities in which the company bears a majority of the risk to the entities' expected losses or stands to gain from a majority of the entities' expected returns. all intercompany transactions have been eliminated. the results of companies acquired or disposed of are included in the consolidated and combined financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. change in fiscal year and reporting calendar alignment unless otherwise indicated, references in the consolidated and combined financial statements to fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006, and fiscal 2005 are to tyco electronics' fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005. effective october 1, 2004, tyco electronics changed its fiscal year end from a calendar fiscal year ending september 30th to a "52-53 week" year ending on the last friday of september, such that each quarterly period is 13 weeks in length. for fiscal years in which there are 53 weeks, the fourth quarter reporting period will include 14 weeks, with the first such occurrence taking place in fiscal 2011. the impact of this change was not material to the combined financial statements. net income for the transition period related to this change was $21 million after-tax, $29 million pre-tax, and was reported within equity. 86 2. summary of significant accounting policies revenue recognition the company's revenues are generated principally from the sale of its products. revenue from the sale of products is recognized at the time title and risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer. this is generally when the products reach the free-on-board shipping point, the sales price is fixed and determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. for those items where title has not yet transferred, the company has deferred the recognition of revenue. the company provides certain distributors with an inventory allowance for returns or scrap equal to a percentage of qualified purchases. a reserve for estimated scrap and returns allowances is established at the time of the sale based on a fixed percentage of sales to distributors authorized and agreed to by the company and is recorded as a reduction of sales. other allowances include customer quantity and price discrepancies. a reserve for other allowances is established at the time of sale based on historical experience and is recorded as a reduction of sales. the company believes it can reasonably and reliably estimate the amounts of future allowances. contract sales for construction related projects are recorded primarily on the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related cost to complete. percentage-of-completion is measured based on the ratio of actual cost incurred to total estimated cost. revisions in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits in the current period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they first become determinable. contract sales for construction related projects are generated primarily within the company's wireless systems and undersea telecommunications segments. the company typically warrants that its products will conform to the company's specifications and that its products will be free from material defects in materials and manufacturing. the company limits its liability to the replacement of defective parts or the cash value of replacement parts. the company accepts returned goods only when the customer makes a claim and management has authorized the return. returns result primarily from defective products or shipping discrepancies. a reserve for estimated returns is established at the time of sale based on historical return experience and is recorded as a reduction of sales. additionally, certain of the company's long-term contracts in its wireless systems and undersea telecommunications segments have warranty obligations. estimated warranty costs for each contract are determined based on the contract terms and technology specific considerations. these costs are included in total estimated contract costs and are accrued over the construction period of the respective contracts under percentage-of-completion accounting. on september 26, 2005, the company's wireless systems segment entered into a twenty year lease contract with the state of new york to construct, operate, and maintain a statewide wireless communications network for use by state and municipal first responders worth $2 billion. lease terms and payment streams begin when each of the regional networks that make up the statewide network are determined to meet the operational requirements of the contract and are accepted by the state of new york, with the lease terms running through september 2025. 87 the company is accounting for each regional network as a stand-alone sales-type lease and will recognize seller's profit on acceptance of each region. as of fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, no acceptance events have occurred with any region and therefore the company has not recognized any revenue on the construction of the network. costs totaling $28 million and $8 million in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, associated with the development and construction of the statewide wireless network, including interest expense incurred to finance the construction, have been capitalized primarily as inventories on the consolidated and combined balance sheets. no costs were incurred in fiscal 2005. research and development research and development expenditures are expensed when incurred and are included in cost of sales. research and development expenses include salaries, direct costs incurred, and building and overhead expenses. the amounts expensed in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $520 million, $467 million, and $424 million, respectively. cash and cash equivalents all highly liquid investments purchased with maturities of three months or less from the time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. allowance for doubtful accounts the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable losses inherent in the company's outstanding receivables determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts, and other currently available evidence. inventories inventories are recorded at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market value. property, plant, and equipment, net and long-lived assets property, plant, and equipment, net is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. maintenance and repair expenditures are charged to expense when incurred. depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows: buildings and related improvements 5 to 40 years leasehold improvements lesser of remaining term of the lease or economic useful life machinery and equipment 1 to 20 years the company periodically evaluates the net realizable value of long-lived assets, including property, plant, and equipment, and amortizable intangible assets, relying on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. when indicators of potential impairment are present, the carrying values of the assets are evaluated in relation to the operating performance and estimated future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying business. an impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. 88 the amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its fair value. fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. goodwill and other intangible assets intangible assets acquired include both those that have a determinable life and residual goodwill. intangible assets with a determinable life include primarily intellectual property consisting of patents, trademarks, and unpatented technology with estimates of recoverability ranging from 3 to 50 years that are amortized on a straight-line basis. see note 10 for additional information regarding intangible assets. an evaluation of the remaining useful life of intangible assets with a determinable life is performed on a periodic basis when events and circumstances warrant an evaluation. the company assesses intangible assets with a determinable life for impairment consistent with its policy for assessing other long-lived assets. goodwill is assessed for impairment separately from other intangible assets with a determinable life by comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit to its fair value on the first day of the fourth quarter of each year or whenever the company believes a triggering event requiring a more frequent assessment has occurred. in making this assessment, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, transactions, and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. as of fiscal year end 2007, the company has 16 reporting units, of which 13 contain goodwill that is assessed for impairment. when changes occur in the composition of one or more operating segments or reporting units, the goodwill is reassigned to the reporting units affected based on their relative fair values. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company performs a step i goodwill impairment test to identify a potential impairment. in doing so, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill may be impaired and a step ii goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. in the step ii goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. estimates about fair value used in the step i goodwill impairment tests have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. the income approach has been supported by other valuation approaches, such as similar transaction and guideline analyses. these approaches incorporate many assumptions including future growth rates, discount factors, and income tax rates in assessing fair value. changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. 89 income taxes income taxes are computed in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 109, " accounting for income taxes ." in these consolidated and combined financial statements, the benefits of a consolidated return have been reflected where such returns have or could be filed based on the entities and jurisdictions included in the financial statements. deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the consolidated and combined financial statements. deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the differences between the book and tax bases of particular assets and liabilities and operating loss carryforwards using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. a valuation allowance is provided to offset deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. financial instruments in order to address certain financial exposures, the company recently adopted a risk management program that includes the use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments. the company has established policies regarding the types and notional value of derivative financial instruments that can be entered into. the company currently enters into foreign exchange forwards and swaps to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign exchange rates and has designated certain intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies as a hedging of its net investments in certain foreign operations denominated in the same foreign currencies. all derivative financial instruments are reported on the consolidated and combined balance sheets at fair value. changes in the derivative's fair value are recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations because the company has not designated the derivatives as either a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge. the remeasurement of the intercompany non-derivative financial instruments designated as a hedge of the company's net investment in foreign operations is recorded in cumulative translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated and combined balance sheets offsetting the change in cumulative translation adjustment attributable to the company's net investments in certain foreign operations. the company determines the fair value of its financial instruments by using methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. for the majority of financial instruments, including derivatives, standard market conventions are used to determine fair value. for financial instruments that cannot be valued by means of standard market conventions, valuations are obtained from third-party financial institutions known to be active and significant participants in the relevant market. during fiscal 2007, in anticipation of issuing new fixed rate debt, the company entered into, and concurrent with the company's fixed rate debt issuance, terminated, forward starting interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in interest expense that would result from changes in interest rates between the date of the swap and the company's anticipated date of issuing the fixed rate debt. these forward starting interest rate swaps were designated as effective hedges of the probable interest payments under sfas no. 133, " accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities ." see note 14 for further information. 90 share-based compensation the company adopted sfas no. 123r, " share-based payment ," on october 1, 2005 using the modified prospective transition method. under sfas no. 123r, the company determines the fair value of share awards on the date of grant using the black-scholes valuation model. that fair value is expensed ratably over the expected service period, with an allowance made for estimated forfeitures based on historical employee activity. see note 23 for additional information related to the company's share-based compensation. share premium and contributed surplus in accordance with the bermuda companies act 1981, when the company issues shares for cash at a premium to their par value, the resulting premium is credited to a share premium account, a non-distributable reserve. contributed surplus, subject to certain conditions, is a distributable reserve. currency translation for the company's non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries with a functional currency other than u.s. dollars, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using year-end exchange rates. sales and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within equity. gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, which are included in net income, were immaterial in all periods presented. cumulative effect of accounting change during fiscal 2006, the company adopted financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation no. ("fin") 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143. " accordingly, the company recognized asset retirement obligations of $16 million and property, plant, and equipment, net of $4 million in its combined balance sheet at fiscal year end 2006. in addition, the company recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change which resulted in an $8 million after-tax, $12 million pre-tax, loss. during fiscal 2005, the company changed the measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans from september 30th to august 31st, effective october 1, 2004. the company believes that the one-month change of measurement date was a preferable change as it allows management adequate time to evaluate and report the actuarial information in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements under the accelerated reporting deadlines. as a result of this change, the company recorded an $11 million after-tax, $13 million pre-tax, gain cumulative effect of accounting change in fiscal 2005. see note 15 for additional information on the company's retirement plans. recently adopted accounting pronouncements in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, " employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) ." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension 91 and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. under sfas no. 158, companies are required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company currently uses a measurement date of august 31st. sfas no. 158 also requires additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. the measurement date provisions will become effective for the company in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact of the measurement date change provisions on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. the company adopted the funded status recognition provisions at september 28, 2007. the incremental effects of adopting the standard on the consolidated balance sheet are increases of $386 million in long-term pension and postretirement benefit liabilities, $16 million in accrued and other current liabilities, and $55 million in other assets. the impact of adoption also resulted in additional net deferred tax assets of $122 million. the impact of adoption to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of equity, was a reduction of $225 million. there was no impact on pension or other postretirement benefit expense, cash flows, or benefits plans in fiscal 2007. on-going compliance with the standard will not impact pension or other postretirement benefit expense, cash flows, or benefit plans. see note 15 for further discussion of the implementation of the recognition provisions of sfas no. 158. in september 2006, the securities and exchange commission ("sec") issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 108, " considering the effect of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. " sab no. 108 provides guidance on evaluating the materiality of prior periods' misstatements, quantifying the effects of correcting misstatements in the current period and criteria for restatement of prior periods. sab no. 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after november 15, 2006. the company adopted this guidance effective for fiscal 2007. this adoption did not have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. recently issued accounting pronouncements in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141r, " business combinations ." sfas no. 141r replaces sfas no. 141 and addresses the recognition and accounting for identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling interests in business combinations. sfas no. 141r is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 141r will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, " noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements ." sfas no. 160 addresses the accounting and reporting framework for minority interests by a parent company. sfas no. 160 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 160 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in june 2007, the fasb emerging issues task force issued eitf issue no. 06-11, " accounting for income tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards ." eitf 06-11 requires that a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalent units paid on unvested restricted shares and restricted share units be reflected as an increase in contributed surplus and reflected as an addition to the company's excess tax benefit pool, as defined under sfas no. 123r. eitf 06-11 is effective for 92 the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact that eitf 06-11 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, " the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities. " sfas no. 159 permits an entity, on a contract-by-contract basis, to make an irrevocable election to account for certain types of financial instruments and warranty and insurance contracts at fair value, rather than historical cost, with changes in the fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recognized in earnings. sfas no. 159 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 159 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, " fair value measurements. " sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that sfas no. 157 will have on its results of operations or financial position. in june 2006, the fasb issued fin 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 ." this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin 48 and related interpretations are effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. the cumulative effect of adoption will be recorded as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for fiscal 2008. the company is currently assessing the expected impact of adopting fin 48. based upon its evaluation to date, the company estimates that the adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings will be $100 to $200 million. this adjustment includes an estimated net increase in contingent liabilities upon adoption of fin 48 of $300 to $400 million, excluding interest, reduced by the portion of these contingent liabilities for which tyco international and covidien are contractually obligated under the terms of the tax sharing agreement. see note 17 for additional information regarding responsibilities for unresolved legacy tax matters. 3. separation costs in connection with the separation, the company incurred costs of $45 million in fiscal 2007, primarily related to employee costs, including non-cash compensation expense of $11 million related to the modification of share option awards at separation and $13 million related to the acceleration of restricted share award vesting as a result of separation. see note 23 for further information on the conversion of tyco international share option awards into tyco electronics share option awards and the acceleration of restricted share award vesting. 93 4. restructuring and other charges (credits), net charges (credits) to operations by segment during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) electronic components $ 54 $ 9 $ (1 ) network solutions 35 9 2 wireless systems 10 5 1 undersea telecommunications 5 (4 ) (12 ) $ 104 $ 19 $ (10 ) amounts recognized in the consolidated and combined statements of operations during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) restructuring and other charges (credits), net: cash charges $ 78 $ 13 $ 6 non-cash charges (credits) 21 (16 ) total restructuring and other charges (credits), net 99 13 (10 ) cost of sales 5 6 $ 104 $ 19 $ (10 ) cash charges activity in the company's restructuring reserves during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 is summarized as follows: balance at beginning of year charges utilization changes in estimate transfers from held for sale (1)(2) currency translation balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2007 activity: fiscal 2007 actions employee severance $ $ 69 $ (4 ) $ $ $ (1 ) $ 64 facilities exit costs 1 (1 ) 1 1 other costs 2 (2 ) total 72 (7 ) 1 (1 ) 65 fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 3 (3 ) facilities exit costs 2 1 (1 ) 2 total 5 1 (4 ) 2 pre-fiscal 2005 actions facilities exit costs 66 5 (15 ) 7 2 65 total fiscal 2007 activity 71 78 (26 ) 8 1 132 94 balance at beginning of year charges utilization changes in estimate transfers from held for sale (1)(2) currency translation balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2006 activity: fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 12 (10 ) 1 3 facilities exit costs 2 2 other total 14 (10 ) 1 5 fiscal 2005 actions employee severance 5 (5 ) facilities exit costs other total 5 (5 ) pre-fiscal 2005 actions employee severance 3 (3 ) facilities exit costs 71 (11 ) 1 5 66 other 2 (2 ) total 76 (14 ) (1 ) 5 66 total fiscal 2006 activity 81 14 (29 ) (1 ) 6 71 fiscal 2005 activity: fiscal 2005 actions employee severance 8 (7 ) 4 5 facilities exit costs other total 8 (7 ) 4 5 pre-fiscal 2005 actions employee severance 15 (8 ) (4 ) 3 facilities exit costs 43 (15 ) 4 39 71 other 4 (2 ) 2 total 62 (23 ) (2 ) 39 76 total fiscal 2005 activity $ 62 $ 8 $ (30 ) $ (2 ) $ 43 $ $ 81 (1) during fiscal 2006, the printed circuit group business was accounted for as held for sale and related restructuring liabilities were reclassified accordingly. during fiscal 2007, the printed circuit group business was sold and $8 million of restructuring liabilities were retained by the company. see note 5 for additional information. (2) the tyco global network was accounted for as held for sale during fiscal 2004 and related restructuring liabilities were reclassified accordingly. in fiscal 2005, the tyco global network was sold and $39 million of restructuring liabilities were retained by the company. in addition, the company transferred $4 million of severance liabilities from liability held for sale as a result of the sale of the tyco global network. see note 5 for additional information. 95 fiscal 2007 actions the company initiated restructuring programs during fiscal 2007 relating to the exit of manufacturing operations and the migration of product lines to low cost countries in the electronic components and network solutions segments and the rationalization of certain product lines in the wireless systems segment. in connection with these actions, during fiscal 2007, the company recorded restructuring charges of $72 million primarily related to employee severance and benefits. the company expects to complete all restructuring activities commenced in fiscal 2007 by the end of fiscal 2009 and to incur additional charges of approximately $30 million relating to these initiated actions by completion. fiscal 2006 actions during fiscal 2006, the company recorded restructuring charges of $14 million primarily related to employee severance and benefits. these charges included the elimination of 166 positions. as of fiscal year end 2007, the remaining restructuring reserve related to the fiscal 2006 actions is $2 million. fiscal 2005 actions during fiscal 2005, the company recorded restructuring charges of $8 million related to employee severance and benefits. these charges included the elimination of 802 positions. in addition, the company transferred $4 million of severance liabilities from liability held for sale as a result of the sale of the tyco global network. as of fiscal year end 2007, all actions under these plans are complete. pre-fiscal 2005 actions during fiscal 2002, the company recorded restructuring charges of $798 million primarily related to a significant downturn in the telecommunications industry and certain other end markets. these actions have been completed. as of fiscal year end 2007, the remaining restructuring reserves related to the fiscal 2002 actions are $65 million, relating to exited lease facilities. during fiscal 2007, the company recorded restructuring charges of $5 million for interest accretion on these reserves. the company expects that its remaining reserves will continue to be paid out over the expected terms of the obligations which range from one to fifteen years. non-cash charges and credits during fiscal 2007, the company recorded non-cash charges of $21 million primarily related to fixed assets in connection with exited manufacturing operations and $5 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines. during fiscal 2006, the company recorded non-cash charges of $10 million, including $6 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines. also, during fiscal 2005, the company completed exit activities related to previously acquired operations for which goodwill had been fully impaired in prior years. as these activities were completed for amounts less than originally established as acquisition liabilities, the company recorded the reversal of the acquisition liabilities as a restructuring and other credit of $4 million. during fiscal 2005, the company sold assets which were previously written down to their net realizable value in fiscal 2002 for amounts greater than originally estimated and recorded related gains 96 as restructuring and other credits of $9 million. also, during fiscal 2005, the company completed exit activities related to previously acquired operations for which goodwill had been fully impaired in prior years. as these activities were completed for amounts less than originally established as acquisition liabilities, the company recorded the reversal of the acquisition liabilities as a restructuring and other credit of $7 million. total restructuring reserves the company's restructuring reserves by segment at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 29 $ 1 network solutions 34 3 wireless systems 6 3 undersea telecommunications 63 64 restructuring reserves $ 132 $ 71 at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, restructuring reserves were included in the company's consolidated and combined balance sheets as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) accrued and other current liabilities $ 70 $ 16 other liabilities 62 55 restructuring reserves $ 132 $ 71 5. discontinued operations and divestitures discontinued operations the divestiture of the company's power systems business was authorized during fiscal 2007. as a result, the company assessed power systems' assets for impairment under sfas no. 144, " accounting for the impairment and disposal of long-lived assets ," using a probability-weighted set of expected cash flows from the eventual disposition. the company determined that the book value of the power systems business exceeded its estimated fair value and recorded a $435 million after-tax, $585 million pre-tax, impairment charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 in loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. subsequent to year end, the company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its power systems business. see note 26 for additional information. during fiscal 2006, the company entered into a definitive agreement to divest the printed circuit group business. during the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the company consummated the sale of the 97 printed circuit group business for $227 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a $45 million pre-tax gain on the sale. the power systems and printed circuit group businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. prior to reclassification as held for sale, both the power systems and printed circuit group business were components of the other segment, which has been renamed the undersea telecommunications segment. the following table reflects net sales, pre-tax loss from discontinued operations, pre-tax gain on sale of discontinued operations including impairments and costs to sell, and income taxes for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) net sales $ 490 $ 940 $ 882 pre-tax loss from discontinued operations $ (635 ) $ (34 ) $ (33 ) pre-tax gain on sale of discontinued operations 45 income tax benefit 180 47 155 (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ (410 ) $ 13 $ 122 the following table presents balance sheet information for discontinued operations and other businesses held for sale at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) accounts receivable, net $ 96 $ 188 inventories 114 174 intangible assets, net 452 property, plant, and equipment, net 164 other assets 5 4 total assets $ 215 $ 982 accounts payable $ 39 $ 87 accrued and other current liabilities 24 48 other liabilities 102 10 total liabilities $ 165 $ 145 gain on divestiture during fiscal 2005, the company agreed to sell the tyco global network, its undersea fiber optic telecommunication network that was part of the undersea telecommunications segment. the sale was consummated on june 30, 2005. as part of the sale transaction, the company received gross cash 98 proceeds of $130 million and the purchaser assumed certain liabilities. in connection with this sale, the company recorded a $301 million pre-tax gain which is reflected in gain on divestiture in the combined statement of operations for fiscal 2005. the company has presented the operations of the tyco global network in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations were not met. 6. acquisitions acquisitions during fiscal 2006, the company acquired one business for an aggregate cost of $18 million and acquired the remaining interest in a joint venture for $5 million. the company acquired one business for an aggregate cost of $8 million and acquired the remaining interest in a joint venture for $4 million in fiscal 2005. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash generated from operations. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. holdback and earn-out liabilities the company paid cash related to holdback and earn-out liabilities of approximately $1 million, $82 million, and $2 million during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, relating to certain prior period acquisitions. the total cash paid in fiscal 2006 was reported in discontinued operations as it related to the printed circuit group business. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other pre-acquisition contingencies. additionally, certain acquisitions have provisions that would require the company to make additional contingent purchase price payments to the sellers if the acquired company achieves certain milestones subsequent to its acquisition by the company. these payments are tied to certain performance measures, such as sales, gross margin, or earnings growth and generally are treated as additional purchase price. at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, holdback and earn-out liabilities of $60 million and $54 million, respectively, were included in other liabilities on the company's consolidated and combined balance sheets. 7. inventories at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, inventories consisted of the following: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) raw materials $ 327 $ 306 work in progress 838 675 finished goods 882 869 inventories $ 2,047 $ 1,850 99 8. property, plant, and equipment, net at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, property, plant, and equipment, net consisted of the following: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) land and improvements $ 248 $ 250 buildings and leasehold improvements 1,406 1,314 machinery and equipment 6,404 5,308 construction in process 471 572 gross property, plant, and equipment 8,529 7,444 accumulated depreciation (5,024 ) (4,368 ) property, plant, and equipment, net $ 3,505 $ 3,076 depreciation expense was $498 million, $448 million, and $457 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. capital leases are included as a component of machinery and equipment. amortization of assets under capital leases is included in depreciation expense. during fiscal 2007, the company exercised its option to buy five cable-laying sea vessels that were previously leased to the company and used by the undersea telecommunications segment at a cost of $280 million, which was reflected as a capital expenditure. 9. goodwill the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for fiscal 2007 and 2006 were as follows: electronic components network solutions wireless systems total (in millions) balance at september 30, 2005 $ 5,947 $ 841 $ 635 $ 7,423 acquisitions 5 1 6 impairment (316 ) (316 ) currency translation 21 1 22 balance at september 29, 2006 5,973 843 319 7,135 purchase accounting adjustments (1 ) 1 currency translation 36 6 42 balance at september 28, 2007 $ 6,008 $ 850 $ 319 $ 7,177 during fiscal 2006, the company recorded a goodwill impairment of $316 million in its wireless systems segment related to the integrated wireless products reporting unit. the impairment charge was incurred when the reporting unit experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous experience and future expectations due to sales declines in certain end markets. 100 10. intangible assets, net the company's intangible assets at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted average amortization period gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted average amortization period ($ in millions) amortizable: intellectual property $ 858 $ (315 ) $ 543 23 years $ 835 $ (270 ) $ 565 23 years other 14 (3 ) 11 50 years 12 (2 ) 10 50 years total amortizable 872 (318 ) 554 24 years 847 (272 ) 575 24 years non-amortizable 1 1 intangible assets $ 872 $ (318 ) $ 554 $ 848 $ (272 ) $ 576 intangible asset amortization expense, which is recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses, was $37 million, $36 million, and $33 million for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. the estimated aggregate amortization expense on intangible assets currently owned by the company is expected to be as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2008 $ 40 fiscal 2009 39 fiscal 2010 38 fiscal 2011 38 fiscal 2012 37 thereafter 362 $ 554 11. accrued and other current liabilities at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, accrued and other current liabilities consisted of the following: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) accrued payroll and employee benefits $ 359 $ 335 income taxes payable 245 394 restructuring reserves 70 16 dividends payable 70 deferred income taxes 49 41 other 657 521 accrued and other current liabilities $ 1,450 $ 1,307 101 12. debt debt at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 was as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) 6.00% senior notes due 2012 $ 800 $ 6.55% senior notes due 2017 747 7.125% senior notes due 2037 498 unsecured senior bridge loan facility 550 unsecured senior revolving credit facility 700 due to tyco international ltd. and affiliates 3,510 7.2% notes due 2008 19 86 other 64 66 total debt 3,378 3,662 less current portion (1) 5 291 long-term debt $ 3,373 $ 3,371 (1) the current portion of long-term debt at september 28, 2007 was comprised of $5 million of the amount shown as other. at september 29, 2006, the current portion of long-term debt was comprised of $285 million due to tyco international ltd. and affiliates and $6 million of the amount shown as other. during september 2007, tyco electronics group s.a. ("tegsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, issued $800 million principal amount of its 6.00% senior notes due 2012, $750 million principal amount of its 6.55% senior notes due 2017, and $500 million principal amount of its 7.125% senior notes due 2037, all of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tegsa offered the senior notes in the u.s. to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933 (the "securities act"). in addition, the initial purchasers, through their respective selling agents, sold less than one-half of one percent of the senior notes outside the u.s. pursuant to regulation under the securities act. in connection with the issuance of the senior notes, tegsa and the company entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers under which tegsa and the company agreed, for the benefit of the holders of the senior notes, to file with the sec an exchange offer registration statement within 210 days after the date of the original issue of the notes. net proceeds from the sales of the senior notes were used to repay a portion of borrowings under the unsecured senior bridge loan facility. in april 2007, tegsa entered into a $2,800 million unsecured senior bridge loan facility. the company is the guarantor of the bridge facility which had an original maturity date of april 23, 2008. on august 31, 2007, the company and tegsa amended the unsecured bridge loan facility to permit, at tegsa's option, an extension of the maturity from april 23, 2008 to april 22, 2009. borrowings under the bridge facility bear interest, at tegsa's option, at a base rate or the london interbank offered rate ("libor") plus a margin dependent on tegsa's credit ratings and the amount drawn under the facility. tegsa is required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 4.5 to 12.5 basis points depending on its credit ratings. the bridge facility contains provisions that may require mandatory prepayments or reduction of unused commitments if the company or tegsa issues debt or equity. in may 2007, tranche b was added to the bridge facility, increasing the amount of the facility by $775 million. all balances under tranche b of the facility were paid off and all commitments under tranche b were cancelled in august 2007. borrowings under the bridge facility were used to fund a portion of tyco international's debt tender offers, to repay a portion of tyco international's existing 102 bank credit facilities, and to fund the company's portion of tyco international's class action settlement escrow. see note 16 for further information regarding the class action settlement. additionally, in april 2007, tegsa entered into a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. the company is the guarantor of the revolving credit facility. the commitments under the revolving credit facility are $1,500 million. interest and fees under the revolving credit facility are substantially the same as under the bridge loan facility. the revolving credit facility will be used for working capital, capital expenditures, and other corporate purposes. as of september 28, 2007, tegsa had $700 million outstanding under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, which bore interest at the rate of 5.38%. also, as of september 28, 2007, tegsa had $550 million of indebtedness outstanding under the unsecured bridge loan facility, which bore interest at the rate of 5.47%. during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company conducted a tender offer to purchase for cash its subsidiary's 7.2% notes due 2008 amounting to $86 million. approximately $67 million, or 78%, of the notes were tendered and extinguished. the company's debt agreements contain financial and other customary covenants. none of these covenants are presently considered restrictive to the company's operations. as of september 28, 2007, the company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. the september 2007 senior notes referred to above are subject to an exchange and registration rights agreement under which if certain registration requirements are not met by the required time or registration is withdrawn or is subject to an effective stop order, there may be a registration default, requiring payment by the company of liquidated damages in the form of special interest at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days of such registration default, and at a rate of 0.50% thereafter, until such registration default is cured. as of september 28, 2007, the company has determined that the likelihood of a registration default is remote and has not accrued any special interest. tyco international's consolidated debt, exclusive of amounts incurred directly by the company, was proportionately allocated to the company at september 29, 2006 based on the historical funding requirements of the company using historical data. the allocated debt amounts, presented as "due to tyco international ltd. and affiliates," were classified on the combined balance sheet at september 29, 2006 based on the maturities of tyco international's underlying debt. net interest expense was allocated in the same proportions as debt through june 1, 2007 and includes the impact of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, tyco international has allocated to tyco electronics interest expense of $150 million, $234 million, and $271 million, respectively, and interest income of $20 million, $33 million, and $32 million, respectively. in addition, tyco international has allocated to the company loss on retirement of debt in the amount of $232 million and $365 million for fiscal 2007 and 2005, respectively. such amounts are included in other expense, net in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. the method utilized to allocate loss on retirement of debt is consistent with the allocation of debt and net interest expense as described above. management believes the allocation basis for debt, net interest expense, and loss on retirement of debt was reasonable based on the historical financing needs of the company. however, these amounts 103 may not be indicative of the actual amounts that the company would have incurred had it been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. the fair value of the company's debt was approximately $3,413 million at fiscal year end 2007. at fiscal year end 2006, the fair value of the company's external debt, which excludes amounts allocated by tyco international, was approximately $155 million. for further detail of methods and assumptions used in determining fair value, see note 2. the aggregate amounts of total debt, maturing during the next five years and thereafter are as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2008 $ 555 fiscal 2009 20 fiscal 2010 1 fiscal 2011 1 fiscal 2012 1,500 thereafter 1,301 total $ 3,378 the unsecured senior bridge loan facility of $550 million is classified as long-term as a result of the company's august 31, 2007 amendment to the facility. on the maturity schedule above, the $550 million is presented as maturing in fiscal 2008. certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have overdraft or similar types of facilities, which totaled $51 million, of which $47 million was undrawn and available at fiscal year end 2007. these facilities, most of which are renewable, expire at various dates through the year 2010 and are established primarily within the company's international operations. 13. guarantees pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, upon separation, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with tyco international and covidien. under these agreements, principally the tax sharing agreement, tyco international, covidien, and tyco electronics share 27%, 42%, and 31%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of all liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of all liabilities settled by the companies with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. if any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, the company would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. the company's indemnification created under the tax sharing agreement qualifies as a guarantee of a third party entity's debt under fin 45, " guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others ." fin 45 addresses the measurement and disclosure of a guarantor's obligation to pay a debt incurred by a third party. to value the initial obligation under fin 45, the company considered a range of probability-weighted future cash flows that represent the likelihood of payment of each class of liability by each of the three post-separation 104 companies. the future cash flows incorporate interest and penalties that the companies believe will be incurred on each class of liabilities and are discounted to the present value to reflect the value associated with each as of september 28, 2007. the fin 45 calculation includes a premium that reflects the cost for an insurance carrier to stand in and assume the payment obligation. because the future cash flows include a consideration of all tax positions, both asserted and unasserted, the fin 45 fair value is reduced by the company's accrual of 31% of all asserted tax liabilities on the books of tyco international and covidien. based on the probability-weighted future cash flows related to the unresolved tax matters, the company, under the tax sharing agreement, faces a maximum potential liability of $3 billion, based on undiscounted estimates and interest and penalties used to determine the fair value of the fin 45 guarantee and an assumption of 100% default on the parts of tyco international and covidien, a likelihood that management believes to be remote. in the event that the company is required, due to bankruptcy or other business interruption on the part of tyco international or covidien, to pay more than the contractually determined 31%, the company retains the right to seek payment from the effected entity. at separation, the probability-weighted cash flows and risk premium resulted in a fair value of the fin 45 liability of $338 million. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, a review of tax reserves held by the company, tyco international, and covidien resulted in approximately $134 million of tax reserves on the books of tyco international and covidien being transferred to the company. as a result of recording those liabilities, the company re-assessed its fin 45 liability and decreased it by $42 million to $296 million. the total liability of $296 million under fin 45 consists of two components. the first component is a sfas no. 5, " accounting for contingencies ," liability that represents the asserted liabilities that either tyco international or covidien have determined to be probable and estimable totaling $198 million. the remaining $98 million represents the fair value of the 31% indemnification made to tyco international and covidien under the tax sharing agreement. the initial liability at separation and the transfer made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were reflected as adjustments to contributed surplus on the consolidated balance sheets. upon separation, the company assumed $930 million of contingent tax liabilities from tyco international which was recorded in income taxes on the consolidated balance sheet. under the tax sharing agreement, these liabilities, coupled with pre-existing tax liabilities, resulted in the company recording a receivable of $675 million from tyco international and covidien to reflect the 69% indemnification granted by each, which was recorded in receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. on the consolidated balance sheet upon separation. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, in conjunction with the review of tax reserves discussed in the above paragraph, the company assumed an additional $161 million in tax reserves, of which $27 million represents accrued interest, resulting in total income tax liabilities assumed as a result of separation of $1,091 million, which is recorded in income taxes on the consolidated balance sheets. as a result of assuming these liabilities, the company has recorded a receivable from tyco international and covidien in the amount of $844 million on the consolidated balance sheet. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties, and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability for investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. 105 however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the company generally records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty see note 2. the changes in the company's warranty liability for fiscal 2007 and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) balance at beginning of fiscal year $ 27 $ 38 warranties issued during the fiscal year 6 3 warranty expirations and changes in estimate (2 ) (9 ) settlements (5 ) (5 ) balance at end of fiscal year $ 26 $ 27 14. financial instruments the company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, investments, accounts payable, debt, and derivative financial instruments. the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, investments, accounts payable, external debt, and derivative financial instruments approximated book value at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006. see note 12 for the fair value estimates of external debt. to the extent that tyco international entered into hedges on behalf of the company prior to separation, the statement of operations effects of those hedges have been allocated to the company as part of the tyco international general corporate overhead expense allocation or interest expense allocation as appropriate. see note 17. the cash flows related to derivative financial instruments are reported in the operating activities section of the consolidated and combined statements of cash flow. foreign exchange risks as permitted under the company's risk management program and policies, the company uses derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to foreign currency risks. as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the company utilizes foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted cash transactions. these contracts are marked to market with changes in the derivatives fair value recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. at fiscal year end 2007, the company had net liabilities of $8 million on the consolidated balance sheet related to these transactions. 106 the company centrally manages the cash of most of its subsidiaries. to convert foreign currency cash flows in a cost effective manner, the company enters into currency swaps and foreign exchange forwards. the terms of these instruments are generally less than one year. the changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are largely offsetting and are recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. interest rate risk management the company issues debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund its operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, the company has used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of its variable rate debt into fixed rate debt (cash flow hedges). at the end of september 28, 2007, the company had no outstanding interest rate swaps. during fiscal 2007, in anticipation of issuing new fixed rate debt, the company entered into, and concurrent with the company's fixed rate debt issuance, terminated, forward starting interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in interest expense that would result from changes in interest rates between the date of the swap and the company's anticipated date of issuing fixed rate debt. these forward starting interest rate swaps were designated as effective hedges of the probable interest payments under sfas no. 133. upon the issuance of the company's new debt, these swaps were terminated for a cash payment of $54 million. the effective portion of these swaps of $53 million was recorded in other comprehensive income and will be recognized in earnings as interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt instruments. the ineffective portion of $1 million was recorded as interest expense in the consolidated and combined financial statements. hedge of net investment the company hedges its net investments in certain foreign operations using intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in the same currencies. the aggregate notional value of these hedges was $3.7 billion at september 28, 2007. as a result of the hedges of net investment, $118 million of foreign exchange loss was reclassified to cumulative translation adjustment, a component of other comprehensive income, for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007. the company did not hedge net investments in foreign operations during fiscal 2006 or fiscal 2005. the company's derivative financial instruments present certain market and counterparty risks; however, concentration of counterparty risk is mitigated as the company deals with a variety of major banks worldwide with long-term standard &amp; poor's and moody's credit ratings of a/a2 or higher. in addition, only conventional derivative financial instruments are utilized, thereby affording optimum clarity as to the determination of the market risk. none of the company's derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end would result in a significant loss to the company if a counterparty failed to perform according to the terms of its agreement. at this time, the company does not require collateral or other security to be furnished by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments. 107 15. retirement plans measurement date in fiscal 2005, the company changed the measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans from september 30th to august 31st, effective october 1, 2004. the company believes that the one-month change of measurement date was a preferable change as it allows management adequate time to evaluate and report the actuarial information in the consolidated and combined financial statements under the accelerated reporting deadlines. accordingly, all amounts presented as of and for the fiscal years ended 2006 and 2005 reflect an august 31st measurement date, while prior years reflect a september 30th measurement date. the company has accounted for the change in measurement date as a change in accounting principle. the cumulative effect of the accounting principle change as of the beginning of fiscal 2005 was an $11 million after-tax, $13 million pre-tax, gain. the change in measurement date did not have a material effect on net periodic benefit costs. adoption of sfas no. 158 as disclosed in note 2, the company adopted the funded status recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 effective september 28, 2007. the following table summarizes the impact of the adoption of sfas no. 158 on the consolidated balance sheet at september 28, 2007: prior to sfas no. 158 adoption impact of sfas no. 158 adoption after sfas no. 158 adoption (in millions) assets: current deferred income tax assets $ 320 $ 5 $ 325 other assets 283 55 338 non-current deferred income tax assets 1,274 123 1,397 total assets $ 23,505 $ 183 $ 23,688 liabilities and equity: accrued and other current liabilities $ 1,434 $ 16 $ 1,450 non-current deferred tax liabilities 265 6 271 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 221 386 607 accumulated other comprehensive income 1,277 (225 ) 1,052 total liabilities and equity $ 23,505 $ 183 $ 23,688 the amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income as of september 28, 2007 were as follows: u.s. defined benefit pension plans non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans other postretirement benefit plans (in millions) prior service (credit) cost $ $ (18 ) $ 2 net loss 170 240 total $ 170 $ 222 $ 2 108 the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income as of september 28, 2007 that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) during fiscal 2008 were as follows: u.s defined benefit pension plans non-u.s defined benefit pension plans other postretirement benefit plans (in millions) prior service credit $ $ (2 ) $ net loss 7 8 total $ 7 $ 6 $ defined benefit pension plans prior to separation, the company participated through its former parent, tyco international, in a number of contributory and noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans. subsequent to separation, the company assumed sponsorship of those plans, covering certain of its u.s. and non-u.s. employees, designed in accordance with local custom and practice. net periodic pension benefit cost is based on periodic actuarial valuations which use the projected unit credit method of calculation and is charged to the consolidated and combined statements of operations on a systematic basis over the expected average remaining service lives of current participants. contribution amounts are determined based on the advice of professionally qualified actuaries in the countries concerned. the benefits under the defined benefit plans are based on various factors, such as years of service and compensation. prior to separation, the company participated through its former parent in one co-mingled plan that included plan participants of other tyco international subsidiaries. the company recorded its portion of the co-mingled plan's expense and the related obligation, which has been actuarially determined based on the company's specific benefit formulas by participants and allocated plan assets. the contribution amounts were determined in total for the co-mingled plan and allocated to the company based on headcount. management believes such allocations were reasonable. in fiscal 2007, this plan was legally separated, resulting in a reallocation of assets based on the employee retirement income security act ("erisa") prescribed calculation which will result in adjustments to the components of the net amount recognized and future expense. 109 the net periodic benefit (credit) cost for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 ($ in millions) service cost $ 5 $ 4 $ 4 $ 60 $ 62 $ 54 interest cost 55 50 52 70 60 61 expected return on plan assets (74 ) (72 ) (65 ) (60 ) (51 ) (45 ) amortization of prior service cost (2 ) (2 ) amortization of net actuarial loss 13 15 12 20 24 21 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (10 ) (1 ) (6 ) net periodic benefit (credit) cost $ (11 ) $ (3 ) $ 3 $ 87 $ 93 $ 85 weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost during the period: discount rate 6.00 % 5.25 % 6.00 % 4.15 % 3.85 % 4.52 % expected return on plan assets 7.99 % 7.99 % 7.99 % 5.73 % 5.76 % 6.12 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.25 % 3.19 % 3.06 % 3.37 % the following table represents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, and the net amount recognized on the consolidated and combined balance sheets for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2007 2006 ($ in millions) change in benefit obligations: benefit obligation at end of prior period $ 947 $ 988 $ 1,662 $ 1,583 service cost 5 4 60 62 interest cost 55 50 70 60 employee contributions 6 5 plan amendments 3 (19 ) actuarial gain (34 ) (44 ) (126 ) (42 ) benefits and administrative expenses paid (51 ) (51 ) (60 ) (47 ) (divestitures) new plans (4 ) 31 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (6 ) currency translation 118 60 benefit obligation at end of period $ 918 $ 947 $ 1,758 $ 1,662 110 change in plan assets: fair value of plan assets at end of prior period $ 951 $ 928 $ 1,002 $ 870 actual return on plan assets 114 73 94 81 employer contributions 1 1 68 53 employee contributions 6 5 (divestitures) new plans (51 ) 16 benefits and administrative expenses paid (51 ) (51 ) (60 ) (47 ) curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (6 ) currency translation 74 40 fair value of plan assets at end of period $ 964 $ 951 $ 1,194 $ 1,002 funded status $ 46 $ 4 $ (564 ) $ (660 ) contributions after the measurement date 11 14 unrecognized net actuarial loss 200 399 unrecognized prior service cost (credit) 1 (21 ) net amount recognized $ 46 $ 205 $ (553 ) $ (268 ) amounts recognized on the consolidated and combined balance sheets: intangible asset $ $ 1 $ $ other assets 63 4 14 19 accrued and other current liabilities (3 ) (8 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities (14 ) (559 ) (453 ) additional minimum liability 200 166 net amount recognized $ 46 $ 205 $ (553 ) $ (268 ) weighted average assumptions used to determine pension benefit obligations at period end: discount rate 6.35 % 6.00 % 4.70 % 4.15 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 3.45 % 3.19 % in determining the expected return on plan assets, the company considers the relative weighting of plan assets by class and individual asset class performance expectations as provided by their external advisors. the investment strategy for the u.s. pension plans has been governed by the company's investment committee; investment strategies for non-u.s. pension plans are governed locally. the company's investment strategy for its pension plans is to manage the plans on a going concern basis. current investment policy is to achieve a reasonable return on assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for participants. 111 target weighted-average asset allocations and weighted average asset allocations for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans target fiscal 2007 fiscal 2006 target fiscal 2007 fiscal 2006 asset category: equity securities 60 % 59 % 52 % 52 % 52 % 52 % debt securities 40 39 41 39 39 39 real estate 3 3 3 3 cash and cash equivalents 2 4 6 6 6 total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % tyco electronics' common shares are not a direct investment of the company's pension funds; however, the pension funds may indirectly include tyco electronics shares. the aggregate amount of the tyco electronics common shares would not be considered material relative to the total pension fund assets. the company's funding policy is to make contributions in accordance with the laws and customs of the various countries in which it operates as well as to make discretionary voluntary contributions from time-to-time. the company anticipates that, at a minimum, it will make the minimum required contributions to its pension plans in fiscal 2008 of $4 million for u.s. plans and $66 million for non-u.s. plans. benefit payments, which reflect future expected service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans (in millions) fiscal 2008 $ 55 $ 55 fiscal 2009 54 57 fiscal 2010 58 62 fiscal 2011 58 66 fiscal 2012 62 67 fiscal 2013-2017 328 398 the accumulated benefit obligation for all u.s. and non-u.s. plans as of fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2007 2006 (in millions) accumulated benefit obligation $ 915 $ 944 $ 1,503 $ 1,413 112 the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2007 2006 (in millions) accumulated benefit obligation $ 19 $ 88 $ 754 $ 1,334 fair value of plan assets 4 59 386 900 the projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2007 2006 (in millions) projected benefit obligation $ 22 $ 90 $ 1,667 $ 1,589 fair value of plan assets 4 59 1,088 926 defined contribution retirement plans the company maintains several defined contribution retirement plans, which include 401(k) matching programs, as well as qualified and nonqualified profit sharing and share bonus retirement plans. expense for the defined contribution plans is computed as a percentage of participants' compensation and was $72 million, $69 million, and $68 million for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. deferred compensation plans the company maintains nonqualified deferred compensation plans, which permit eligible employees to defer a portion of their compensation. a record keeping account is set up for each participant and the participant chooses from a variety of measurement funds for the deemed investment of their accounts. the measurement funds correspond to a number of funds in tyco electronics' 401(k) plans and the account balance fluctuates with the investment returns on those funds. total deferred compensation liabilities were $37 million and $27 million at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, respectively. deferred compensation expense was immaterial in all years presented. 113 rabbi trusts the company has established rabbi trusts, related to certain acquired companies, through which the assets may be used to pay non-qualified plan benefits. the trusts primarily hold bonds. the rabbi trust assets are subject to the claims of the company's creditors in the event of the company's insolvency. the value of the assets held by these trusts, included in other assets on the consolidated and combined balance sheets, was $89 million and $87 million at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, respectively. total liabilities related to the assets held by the rabbi trust and reflected on the consolidated and combined balance sheet were $25 million and $28 million at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, respectively. plan participants are general creditors of the company with respect to these benefits. postretirement benefit plans in addition to providing pension and 401(k) benefits, the company also provides certain health care coverage continuation for qualifying retirees from date of retirement to age 65. net periodic postretirement benefit cost in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 was as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 ($ in millions) service cost $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 interest cost 3 2 3 amortization of prior service credit (1 ) curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (3 ) net periodic postretirement benefit cost $ 1 $ 3 $ 3 weighted average assumptions used to determine net postretirement benefit cost during the period: discount rate 5.75 % 4.75 % 5.50 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.25 % the components of the accrued postretirement benefit obligations, substantially all of which are unfunded, at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 ($ in millions) change in benefit obligations: benefit obligation at beginning of period $ 49 $ 57 service cost 1 1 interest cost 3 2 actuarial gain (7 ) (4 ) benefits paid (5 ) (7 ) benefit obligation at end of period $ 41 $ 49 114 change in plan assets: fair value of assets at beginning of period $ 4 $ 4 employer contributions 5 7 benefits paid (5 ) (7 ) fair value of plan assets at end of period $ 4 $ 4 funded status $ (37 ) $ (45 ) unrecognized net actuarial loss 5 unrecognized prior service cost 2 accrued postretirement benefit cost $ (37 ) $ (38 ) amounts recognized on the consolidated and combined balance sheets: accrued and other postretirement liabilities $ (3 ) $ long-term pension and postretirement liabilities (34 ) (38 ) net amount recognized $ (37 ) $ (38 ) weighted average assumptions used to determine postretirement benefit obligations at period end: discount rate 6.35 % 5.75 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % the company expects to make contributions to its postretirement benefit plans of $3 million in fiscal 2008. benefit payments, including those amounts to be paid out of corporate assets and reflecting future expected service as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2008 $ 4 fiscal 2009 3 fiscal 2010 3 fiscal 2011 3 fiscal 2012 3 fiscal 2013-2017 15 health care cost trend assumptions are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 health care cost trend rate assumed for next fiscal year 10.18 % 9.79 % rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.00 % 5.00 % fiscal year the ultimate trend rate is achieved 2013 2013 115 a one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: 1 percentage point increase 1 percentage point decrease (in millions) effect on total of service and interest cost $ $ effect on postretirement benefit obligation 3 (3 ) 16. commitments and contingencies the company has facility, land, vehicle, and equipment leases that expire at various dates through the year 2056. rental expense under these leases was $179 million, $167 million, and $193 million for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. at fiscal year end 2007, the minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable lease obligations were as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2008 $ 129 fiscal 2009 101 fiscal 2010 81 fiscal 2011 61 fiscal 2012 46 thereafter 194 total $ 612 the company also has purchase obligations related to commitments to purchase certain goods and services. at fiscal year end 2007, the company had commitments to spend $93 million in fiscal 2008. at fiscal year end 2007, the company also had a contingent purchase price commitment of $80 million related to the fiscal 2001 acquisition of com-net by the wireless systems segment. this represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of com-net only after the construction and installation of a communications system for the state of florida is finished and the state has approved the system based on the guidelines set forth in the contract. a liability for this contingency has not been recorded in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements as the outcome of this contingency currently is not estimable. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. as a part of the separation and distribution agreement entered into upon separation, any existing or potential liabilities related to tyco international's outstanding litigation were assigned to the company if tyco electronics was specifically identified in the lawsuit. however, any existing or potential liabilities that could not be associated with tyco electronics were allocated appropriately and post-separation sharing agreements were established. see "part i. item 3. legal proceedings" for a description of tyco international's various significant outstanding litigation proceedings. tyco electronics will be responsible for certain potential liabilities that may arise upon the settlement of the pending litigation based on the post-separation sharing agreement. if tyco international or covidien 116 were to default on their obligation to pay their allocated share of these liabilities, however, the company would be required to pay additional amounts. class actions as a result of actions taken by certain of tyco international's former senior corporate management, tyco international, some members of tyco international's former senior corporate management, former members of tyco international's board of directors, tyco international's former general counsels and former chief financial officer, and tyco international's current chief executive officer are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging violations of the disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. tyco international, certain of its current and former employees, some members of its former senior corporate management, and some former members of its board of directors also are named as defendants in several erisa class actions. tyco international is generally obligated to indemnify its directors and officers and its former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, tyco international's insurance carriers may decline coverage, or tyco international's coverage may be insufficient to cover its expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. on may 14, 2007, tyco international entered into a memorandum of understanding with plaintiffs' counsel in connection with the settlement of 32 purported securities class action lawsuits. the memorandum of understanding does not resolve all securities cases, and several remain outstanding. in addition, the proposed settlement does not release claims arising under erisa. under the terms of the memorandum of understanding, the plaintiffs agreed to release all claims against tyco international, the other settling defendants, and ten other individuals in consideration for the payment of $2,975 million from tyco international to the certified class and assignment to the class of any net recovery of any claims possessed by tyco international and the other settling defendants against tyco international's former auditor, pricewaterhousecoopers. defendant pricewaterhousecoopers was not a settling defendant and is not a party to the memorandum. however, pricewaterhousecoopers subsequently agreed to participate in the settlement as a settling defendant, and in consideration of a release of all claims against it by the parties to the memorandum of understanding, agreed to make a payment of $225 million. tyco international and the other settling defendants have denied and continue to deny any wrongdoing and legal liability arising from any of the facts or conduct alleged in the actions. the parties to the memorandum of understanding applied to the court for approval of the settlement agreement. on july 13, 2007, the court granted preliminary approval of the settlement. on november 2, 2007, the final fairness hearing for the class settlement was held, and the court indicated it would approve the settlement and stated a formal ruling would be issued shortly. if the settlement agreement does not receive final court approval, the memorandum of understanding will be null and void. by december 28, 2007, class participants must file their proofs of claim demonstrating their right to recovery under the class settlement. under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement that was entered into in connection with the separation, tyco international, covidien, and the company are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the class action settlement. additionally, under the separation and distribution agreement, the companies share in the liability and related escrow account with tyco international assuming 27%, covidien 42%, and tyco electronics 31% of the total settlement amount. in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company was allocated a charge from tyco international of $922 million, for which no tax benefit was available. in addition, in fiscal 2007, the company was 117 allocated $35 million of income relating to tyco international's expected recovery of certain costs from insurers, of which $31 million has been collected. the net charge of $887 million has been recorded on the consolidated and combined statement of operations as allocated class action settlement costs, net. the portions allocated to the company are consistent with the sharing percentage included in the separation and distribution agreement. tyco international placed funds in escrow for the benefit of the class. the escrow account earns interest that is payable to the class. in addition, interest is accrued on the class action settlement liability. at fiscal year end 2007, the company recorded $928 million on the consolidated balance sheet for its portion of the escrow. in addition, the company recorded a $2,992 million liability and a $2,064 million receivable from tyco international and covidien for their portion of the liability at fiscal year end 2007. if the proposed settlement were not consummated on the agreed terms or if the unresolved proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco international, the company's share of any additional potential losses, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. investigations tyco international and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec's division of enforcement, the u.s. department of labor, the general service administration, and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into tyco international's governance, management, operations, accounting, and related controls. the department of labor is investigating tyco international and the administrators of certain of its benefit plans. tyco international has advised the company that it cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can it predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that tyco international will be required to pay material fines or suffer other penalties. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. as a result, tyco electronics share of such potential losses also is not estimable and may have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. compliance matters tyco international has received and responded to various allegations that certain improper payments were made by tyco international subsidiaries, including tyco electronics subsidiaries, in recent years. during 2005 and 2006, tyco international reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations. tyco international also informed the doj and the sec that it retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls, and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. tyco international and tyco electronics have had communications with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review being conducted by outside counsel, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by tyco international and the company in the course of the company's ongoing compliance activities. to date, the baseline review has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco international and fcpa requirements. at this time, the company cannot predict the outcome of other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of 118 potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of any or all of these matters. however, it is possible that the company may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties, or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any judgment, settlement, or other cost incurred by tyco international in connection with these matters would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, which provides that any liabilities not primarily related to any of the businesses of tyco international, covidien, or tyco electronics will be shared equally among the companies. intellectual property and antitrust litigation the company is a party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions that may require the company to pay damage awards. the company has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. environmental matters the company is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. as of fiscal year end 2007, the company concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $12 million to $23 million. as of fiscal year end 2007, the company concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $16 million, of which $3 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $13 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters of $16 million, the company believes that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. income taxes the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company and tyco international are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed as probable and estimable and which relate specifically to the tyco electronics business have been recorded in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements. in addition, the company may be required to pay additional taxes for contingencies not related to the electronics businesses as a result of the tax liability sharing arrangements with tyco international and covidien entered into upon separation. in fiscal 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the fiscal 1997 through 2000 years, tyco international submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during fiscal 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. also during fiscal 2006, tyco international developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through fiscal 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that 119 acceptance of these adjustments is probable and, accordingly, has recorded them, as well as the impacts of the adjustments accepted by the irs, in the consolidated and combined financial statements. these adjustments resulted in a $205 million net decrease in deferred income tax assets and a $205 million decrease in income taxes in fiscal 2006. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's results of operations or cash flows. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, tyco international completed proposed amendments to a portion of its u.s. federal income tax returns for the 2001 through 2005 fiscal periods, which primarily reflected the roll forward of the previous amendments for the 1997 to 2002 fiscal periods. these adjustments resulted in a $9 million increase to the tax provision on the company's consolidated and combined financial statements in fiscal 2007. tyco international continues to complete proposed adjustments to the remainder of its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to fiscal 2002. when the company's tax return positions are updated, additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco international's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 though 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agents' reports which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. the revenue agents' reports propose tax audit adjustments to certain of tyco international's previously filed tax return positions, all of which tyco international expected and previously assessed at each balance sheet date. accordingly, the company has made no additional provision during fiscal 2007 with respect to its share of the proposed audit adjustments in the revenue agents' reports. tyco international has agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact to tyco international of $458 million, and during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, tyco international paid $458 million. the company's portion of this payment reduced income taxes on the consolidated balance sheet by $163 million. currently, it is the company's understanding that tyco international will appeal other proposed tax audit adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion and intends to vigorously defend its prior filed tax return positions. the company continues to believe that the amounts recorded in its consolidated and combined financial statements relating to these tax adjustments are sufficient. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in a material impact to the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, ultimate resolution of these matters could result in tyco international filing amended u.s. federal income tax returns for years subsequent to the current fiscal 1997 to 2000 audit period and could have a material impact on the company's effective tax rate in future reporting periods. additionally, the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against tyco international arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with certain intercompany transfers of stock in 1998 and 1999. based on statutory guidelines, the company estimates the proposed penalties could range between $30 million and $50 million. any penalty imposed would be subject to sharing with tyco international and covidien under the tax sharing agreement. currently, it is the company's understanding that tyco international will vigorously oppose the assertion of any such penalties. in connection with the separation, the company entered into a tax sharing agreement that generally governs covidien's, tyco electronics' and tyco international's respective rights, 120 responsibilities, and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the distribution of all of the shares of covidien or tyco electronics to qualify as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of section 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code") or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs to qualify for tax-favored treatment under the code. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, upon separation, the company has entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with tyco international and covidien. under these agreements, principally the tax sharing agreement, tyco international, covidien, and tyco electronics share 27%, 42%, and 31%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of all liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of all liabilities settled by the companies with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. if any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, the company would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. upon separation, $930 million of tyco international's contingent tax liabilities related to unresolved tax matters were transferred to the company in accordance with the tax sharing agreement. in addition, the company recorded a receivable from tyco international and covidien of $675 million on the consolidated balance sheet at june 29, 2007 relating to indemnifications made by tyco international and covidien under the tax sharing agreement. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, an analysis of the tax reserves held by the company, tyco international, and covidien indicated that the company is the primary obligor for an additional $161 million of tax and related interest for which reserves had been recorded on the books of tyco international and covidien. accordingly, the amounts recorded by the company upon separation for contingent tax liabilities and the corresponding assets for indemnifications made by tyco international and covidien were increased to reflect these additional amounts. the initial liability at separation and the adjustment made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were reflected as adjustments to contributed surplus on the consolidated balance sheet. the company's contractual obligation under the tax sharing agreement is 31% of legacy tyco international contingent tax liabilities, or $675 million. this net obligation is comprised of shared contingent tax liabilities of $1,223 million, adjusted for the contractual obligations among the parties to the tax sharing agreement. these contractual obligations consist of a $844 million receivable from tyco international and covidien related to the company's shared contingent tax liabilities, a $198 million liability applicable to tyco international and covidien contingent tax liabilities, and a $98 million liability under fin 45 related to the estimated fair value of future indemnifications made under the tax sharing agreement. see further discussion in note 13. the actual amounts that the company may be required to ultimately accrue or pay under this agreement could vary depending upon the outcome of the unresolved tax matters, which may not be resolved for several years. see note 17 for additional information regarding the company's responsibility for contingent tax liabilities. 121 other matters the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions, and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 17. related party transactions trade activity prior to separation, the company sold certain of its manufactured products consisting primarily of connectors and cable assemblies to tyco international and its affiliates, at prices which approximated fair value. sales to tyco international and its affiliates, which are included in net sales on the consolidated and combined statements of operations, were $60 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2007 and $76 million in both fiscal 2006 and 2005. cash during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the company transferred $27 million of funds to tyco international to adjust for differences between the company's cash balance at june 29, 2007 and its final cash balance as determined in accordance with the separation and distribution agreement. this transfer has been recorded as an adjustment to contributed surplus on the consolidated and combined financial statements. debt and related items the company was allocated a portion of tyco international's consolidated debt, net interest expense, and loss on retirement of debt. see note 12 for further information regarding these allocations. allocated expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company was allocated a net charge from tyco international of $887 million related to the class action settlement. see note 16 for further information regarding the class action settlement. prior to separation, the company was allocated general corporate overhead expenses from tyco international for corporate-related functions based on a pro-rata percentage of tyco international's consolidated net revenue. general corporate overhead expenses primarily related to centralized corporate functions, including treasury, tax, legal, internal audit, human resources, and risk management functions. during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, the company was allocated $152 million, $177 million, and $198 million, respectively, of general corporate overhead expenses incurred by tyco international, which are included within selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. 122 as discussed in note 1, the company believes the assumptions and methodologies underlying the allocation of general corporate overhead expenses and net class action settlement costs from tyco international were reasonable. however, such expenses may not be indicative of the actual level of expenses that would have been or will be incurred by the company if it were to operate as an independent, publicly-traded company. as such, the financial information herein may not necessarily reflect the consolidated and combined financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the company in the future or what it would have been had the company been an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented. transactions with tyco electronics' and tyco international's directors during fiscal 2007, the company engaged in commercial transactions in the normal course of business with companies where tyco electronics' directors were employed and served as officers. purchases from such companies aggregated less than one percent of net sales in fiscal 2007. in addition, during periods prior to the separation in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, the company engaged in commercial transactions in the normal course of business with companies where tyco international's directors were employed and served as officers. during each of these periods, tyco electronics' purchases from such companies aggregated less than one percent of net sales. separation and distribution agreement upon separation, the company entered into a separation and distribution agreement and other agreements with tyco international and covidien to effect the separation and provide a framework for the company's relationships with tyco international and covidien after the distribution of the company's and covidien's shares to tyco international's shareholders (the "distribution"). these agreements govern the relationships among tyco international, covidien, and the company subsequent to the separation and provide for the allocation to the company and covidien of certain of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, the company, covidien, and tyco international assumed 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation or the distribution brought by any third party. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, tyco electronics may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. tax sharing agreement upon separation, the company entered into a tax sharing agreement, under which the company shares responsibility for certain of its, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the company, covidien, and tyco international share 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to its, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns. 123 the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of all liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of all liabilities settled by the companies relating to unresolved legacy tax matters. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities shall be shared equally among the parties. the company will be responsible for all of its own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien will be responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all of the tax liabilities of tyco international that were associated with tyco international subsidiaries that are included in tyco electronics following the separation became tyco electronics' tax liabilities upon separation. although tyco electronics has agreed to share certain tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, tyco electronics remains primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement, tyco electronics would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, the company could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, the company may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed upon share of its, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. 18. income taxes significant components of the income tax provision for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) current: united states: federal $ 45 $ (181 ) $ 22 state 3 (24 ) 25 non-u.s. 284 302 383 current income tax provision 332 97 430 deferred: united states: federal 153 42 (166 ) state (8 ) (35 ) 74 non-u.s. 17 (58 ) 38 deferred income tax provision 162 (51 ) (54 ) $ 494 $ 46 $ 376 124 the u.s. and non-u.s. components of income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest for 2007, 2006, and 2005 are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) u.s. $ 291 $ 6 $ 97 non-u.s. 65 1,234 1,296 income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $ 356 $ 1,240 $ 1,393 the reconciliation between u.s. federal income taxes at the statutory rate and the company's provision for income taxes on continuing operations for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) notional u.s. federal income tax expense at the statutory rate $ 125 $ 434 $ 487 adjustments to reconcile to the income tax provision: u.s. state income tax (benefit) provision, net (3 ) (39 ) 64 tax credits (11 ) (12 ) (15 ) non-u.s. net earnings (1) (104 ) (122 ) (186 ) nondeductible charges 7 33 7 change in accrued income tax liabilities 53 21 110 allocated loss (gain) on retirement of debt 81 (87 ) 127 tax law changes (11 ) class action settlement 312 divestitures and impairments 71 (105 ) valuation allowance 26 (268 ) (129 ) proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns 9 other 10 15 16 provision for income taxes $ 494 $ 46 $ 376 (1) excludes asset impairments, nondeductible charges, and other items which are broken out separately in the table. in fiscal year 2007, no tax benefits were recorded related to the pre-tax charges for the class action settlement and loss on retirement of debt. the net increase of $26 million of deferred tax asset valuation allowances in fiscal 2007 reflects the tax impacts of increased borrowings as a result of the class action settlement and the company's separation from tyco international. the net decrease of $268 million of deferred tax asset valuation allowances in fiscal 2006 is primarily driven by improved profitability in certain jurisdictions, principally the u.s. the company's u.s. results of operations in fiscal 2006 combined with other available evidence, including projections of future taxable income, indicate that it is more likely than not the company will realize additional deferred tax assets in the future and accordingly the related valuation allowances were reduced. 125 reflected in the state tax provision line for fiscal 2006 is a $39 million state tax benefit primarily related to the tyco global network divestiture. the allocated loss on retirement of debt in fiscal 2006 is a cumulative one-time benefit of $87 million associated with the receipt of a favorable non-u.s. tax ruling permitting the deduction of historical debt retirement costs. this benefit is partially offset by an increased valuation allowance of $62 million relating to the deferred tax asset associated with net operating losses created by the debt retirement deductions. this $62 million is reflected on the valuation allowance line in the table above. deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and tax purposes. the components of the net deferred income tax asset at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) deferred tax assets: accrued liabilities and reserves $ 253 $ 439 tax loss and credit carryforwards 2,135 1,936 inventories 60 35 pension and postretirement benefits 143 151 deferred revenue 26 68 other 146 144 2,763 2,773 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets (378 ) (347 ) property, plant, and equipment (148 ) (197 ) other (132 ) (170 ) (658 ) (714 ) net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance 2,105 2,059 valuation allowance (703 ) (611 ) net deferred tax asset $ 1,402 $ 1,448 at fiscal year end 2007, the company had approximately $1,253 million of u.s. federal and $192 million of u.s state net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) which will expire in future years through 2027. in addition, at fiscal year end 2007, the company had approximately $143 million of u.s. federal tax credit carryforwards, of which $22 million have no expiration and $121 million will expire in future years through 2027, and $40 million of u.s. state tax credits carryforwards which will expire in future years through 2027. the company also had $5 million of u.s. federal contribution carryforwards (tax effected) expiring through 2011 and $21 million of u.s. federal capital loss carryforwards (tax effected) expiring through 2010 at fiscal year end 2007. at fiscal year end 2007, the company had approximately $466 million of net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) in certain non-u.s. jurisdictions, of which $164 million have no expiration and $302 million will expire in future years through 2017. also, at fiscal year end 2007, there were 126 $6 million of non-u.s. tax credit carryforwards which will expire in future years through 2013 and $9 million of non-u.s. capital loss carryforwards (tax effected) with no expiration. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $703 million and $611 million at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. the company believes that it will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109, " accounting for income taxes ," which requires that a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is "more likely than not" that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. at fiscal year end 2007, approximately $4 million of the valuation allowance will ultimately reduce goodwill and approximately $16 million of the valuation allocation will be recorded to equity if certain net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards are utilized. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various regulatory tax authorities. see "income taxes" in note 16 for further information. the calculation of the company's tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across its global operations. the company recognizes potential liabilities and records tax liabilities as well as related interest for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards as such tax loss carryforwards will be applied against these tax liabilities and will reduce the amount of cash tax payments due upon the eventual settlement with the tax authorities. the company adjusts these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the company's current estimate of the tax liabilities. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by these taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. if the company's estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities may result in income tax benefits being recognized in the period when the company determines the liabilities are no longer necessary. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in income taxes on the consolidated and combined balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. except for earnings that are currently distributed, no additional provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to basis differences in investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of the distribution of such earnings. a liability could arise if the intention to permanently reinvest earnings were to change and amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. 127 19. other expense, net other expense, net of $219 million in fiscal 2007 includes an allocation from tyco international of $232 million for loss on retirement of debt. see note 12 for additional information. additionally, in fiscal 2007, the company recorded other income of $13 million associated with tyco international's and covidien's share of certain contingent tax liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. for further information regarding the tax sharing agreement, see notes 16 and 17. other expense, net in fiscal 2005 includes an allocation of $365 million from tyco international for loss on retirement of debt. see note 12 for additional information. the allocation methodology for the loss on retirement of debt is consistent with the treatment of debt and net interest expense as described in note 12. management believes that this allocation was reasonable given the impact such retirements had on the overall capital structure of tyco international. however, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual losses on the retirement of debt that the company would have incurred had the company been operating as a separate, stand-alone company for the periods presented. 20. (loss) earnings per share the computation of basic (loss) earnings per share is based on the company's net (loss) income divided by the basic weighted-average number of common shares. on june 29, 2007, the separation from tyco international was completed in a tax-free distribution to the company's shareholders of one common share of tyco electronics ltd. for every four common shares of tyco international held on june 18, 2007. as a result, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. the following table sets forth the denominators of the basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share computations: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) weighted-average shares outstanding: basic 497 497 497 stock options and restricted stock awards diluted 497 497 497 for the year ended september 28, 2007, options to purchase tyco electronics' common shares with the underlying exercise prices less than the average market prices were outstanding, but were excluded from the calculations of diluted loss per share, as inclusion of these securities would have been antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted loss per share totaled 3 million as of september 28, 2007. 128 in addition, certain share option awards were not included in the computation of diluted loss per share for the year ended september 28, 2007 because the instruments' underlying exercise prices were greater than the average market prices of tyco electronics' common shares and inclusion would be antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted loss per share totaled 20 million as of september 28, 2007. the separation and distribution agreement entered into pursuant to separation requires that the company issue common shares, as needed, to satisfy convertible debentures issued prior to separation by tyco international and retained by tyco international subsequent to separation. up to approximately 250,000 shares could be issued to satisfy convertible debentures. for the year ended september 28, 2007, the number of shares issuable to holders of unconverted tyco international debt would be antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted loss per share were insignificant as of september 28, 2007. the following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share utilizing the net income for the year and the company's basic and diluted shares outstanding: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) net (loss) income $ (554 ) $ 1,193 $ 1,144 basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding 497 497 497 basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (1.11 ) $ 2.40 $ 2.30 21. equity parent company investment for all periods prior to june 29, 2007, tyco international's investment in the electronics businesses is shown as parent company investment in the combined financial statements. parent company investment represents the historical investment of capital into the company, the company's accumulated net earnings after taxes, and the net effect of transactions with and allocations from tyco international. see note 17 for additional information regarding the allocation to the company of various expenses incurred by tyco international. on june 29, 2007, tyco international completed a distribution of one common share of tyco electronics ltd. for every four common shares of tyco international. following the separation, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. after the separation adjustments were recorded on june 29, 2007, the remaining parent company investment balance, which includes all earnings prior to the separation, was transferred to contributed surplus. net income subsequent to the separation is included in accumulated earnings. preferred shares the company has authorized 125,000,000 preferred shares, par value of $0.20 per share, none of which were issued and outstanding at september 28, 2007. rights as to dividends, return of capital, redemption, conversion, voting, and otherwise with respect to the preferred shares may be determined 129 by the company's board of directors on or before the time of issuance. in the event of the liquidation of the company, the holders of any preferred shares then outstanding would be entitled to payment to them of the amount for which the preferred shares were subscribed and any unpaid dividends prior to any payment to the common shareholders. dividends in september 2007, the company's board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.14 per common share to be paid on november 1, 2007. the declared but unpaid dividend is recorded in accrued and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at fiscal year end 2007. share repurchase program in september 2007, the company's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of $750 million to purchase a portion of the company's outstanding common shares. no common shares were repurchased under this program in fiscal 2007. 22. accumulated other comprehensive income the components of accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows: currency translation (1) unrealized (loss) gain on securities unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs unrealized loss on cash flow hedge accumulated other comprehensive income (in millions) balance at october 1, 2004 $ 744 $ 2 $ (255 ) $ $ 491 pre-tax current period change (87 ) (1 ) (116 ) (204 ) income tax benefit 44 44 balance at september 30, 2005 657 1 (327 ) 331 pre-tax current period change 242 150 392 income tax expense (53 ) (53 ) balance at september 29, 2006 899 1 (230 ) 670 pre-tax current period change 453 319 (53 ) 719 income tax expense (112 ) (112 ) 1,352 1 (23 ) (53 ) 1,277 adoption of sfas no. 158: pre-tax current period change (347 ) (347 ) income tax benefit 122 122 total (225 ) (225 ) balance at september 28, 2007 $ 1,352 $ 1 $ (248 ) $ (53 ) $ 1,052 (1) during fiscal 2006, $38 million was transferred from currency translation adjustments as a result of the sale of non-u.s. entities. the $38 million gain is included in (loss) income from discontinued operations in the combined statement of operations. during fiscal 2005, $30 million was transferred from currency translation adjustments and included in net income as a result of the sale of non-u.s. entities. the $30 million gain in fiscal 2005 related to the tyco global network and is included in gain on divestiture in the combined statement of operations. 130 23. share plans prior to separation on june 29, 2007, all equity awards (restricted share awards and share options) held by company employees were granted under the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan or other tyco international equity incentive plans. all equity awards granted by the company subsequent to separation were granted under the tyco electronics ltd. 2007 stock and incentive plan (the "2007 plan"). the 2007 plan is administered by the management development and compensation committee of the board of directors of tyco electronics, which consists exclusively of independent directors of tyco electronics and provides for the award of stock options, stock appreciation rights, annual performance bonuses, long-term performance awards, restricted units, deferred stock units, restricted stock, promissory stock, and other stock-based awards (collectively, "awards"). the 2007 plan provides for a maximum of 25 million common shares to be issued as awards, subject to adjustment as provided under the terms of the 2007 plan. the 2007 plan allows for the use of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares to be used to satisfy such awards. prior to the separation, all employee equity awards were granted by tyco international. at the time of separation, significantly all of tyco international's outstanding restricted share awards issued to company employees prior to september 29, 2006 were converted into restricted share awards of the company at a ratio of one share of the company for every four tyco international common shares. the conversion of those pre-september 29, 2006 awards also resulted in the issuance of one restricted share award in tyco international and covidien. the conversion of pre-september 29, 2006 awards to executives and employees of tyco international and covidien resulted in the issuance of a tyco electronics ltd. restricted share award for every four tyco international awards that existed. the remaining restricted share and share option awards issued to company employees converted into restricted share and share option awards of the company based on a ratio of the company's final pre-separation when-issued share price and tyco international's pre-separation closing share price. all share option awards granted prior to september 29, 2006 to company employees who were identified as "tyco corporate employees' prior to separation converted to share option awards in each of the three post-separation companies based on ratios of the respective company's final pre-separation when-issued share price and tyco international's pre-separation closing share price. all share option award conversions were done in accordance with sections 409a and 424 of the code. upon separation, all performance conditions on outstanding performance share awards to company employees were lifted and those awards converted to restricted share awards in the company's stock only. restricted share awards restricted share awards are granted subject to certain restrictions. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant under the 2007 plan. all restrictions on the award will lapse upon retirement or normal retirement eligibility, death, or disability of the employee. recipients of restricted shares have the right to vote such shares and receive dividends, whereas recipients of restricted units have no voting rights and receive dividend equivalents. for grants which vest based on certain specified performance criteria, the fair market value of the shares or units is expensed over the period of performance, once achievement of criteria is deemed probable. for grants that vest through passage of time, the fair market value of the award at the time of the grant is amortized to expense over the period of vesting. the fair value of restricted share awards is determined based on the market value of the company's shares on the grant date. restricted share awards generally vest in one-third increments over a period of four years beginning in the second year, as determined by the management development and compensation committee, or upon attainment of various levels of performance that 131 equal or exceed targeted levels, if applicable. the compensation expense recognized for restricted share awards is net of estimated forfeitures. a summary of the status of restricted share awards and performance share grants by tyco international prior to separation and tyco electronics subsequent to separation as of fiscal year end 2007 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: non-vested restricted share awards shares weighted-average grant-date fair value non-vested at september 30, 2006 2,492,825 $ 29.90 granted by tyco international prior to separation 1,472,960 30.34 vested prior to separation (682,696 ) 27.71 forfeited prior to separation (114,949 ) 29.87 awards granted pursuant to the separation 1,713,945 34.08 effect of separation on grants made by tyco international (1,641,204 ) 30.47 granted by tyco electronics subsequent to separation 1,896,610 39.69 vested subsequent to separation (703,098 ) 35.60 forfeited subsequent to separation (35,848 ) 35.72 non-vested at september 28, 2007 4,398,545 $ 36.96 included in the awards granted pursuant to separation above are 1,337,767 restricted share awards granted to employees and executives of tyco international and covidien. fifty percent of those awards vested on july 2, 2007 and the remaining fifty percent will vest on january 2, 2008. any expense related to this accelerated vesting is borne by the company employing the individual to whom the grant was awarded, either tyco international or covidien. fifty percent of the expense associated with issuance of tyco international and covidien restricted share awards made to employees of the company as a result of the separation was recorded by the company on july 2, 2007 and the remaining fifty percent is being expensed ratably through january 2, 2008. this acceleration of expense for company employees is borne by the company and is included in the consolidated and combined statement of operations within separation costs. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco international restricted share awards granted to tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $30.34, $28.96, and $35.52 respectively. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco electronics restricted share awards granted during fiscal 2007 was $39.69. the total fair value of restricted share awards vested for grants made by tyco international to tyco electronics employees was $19 million during pre-separation fiscal 2007, $5 million during fiscal 2006, and less than $1 million during fiscal 2005. the total fair 132 value of restricted share awards vested for grants made by tyco electronics was $25 million during fiscal 2007. non-vested performance shares shares weighted-average grant-date fair value non-vested at september 30, 2006 117,600 $ 29.00 granted by tyco international prior to separation 33,260 28.18 forfeited prior to separation (1,900 ) 27.93 awards granted pursuant to the separation 19,600 29.00 effect of separation on grants made by tyco international (168,560 ) 28.85 non-vested at september 28, 2007 $ the total fair value of tyco international performance shares granted to tyco electronics employees vested during pre-separation fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 was insignificant. tyco electronics issued no performance shares during fiscal 2007. as of fiscal year end 2007, there was $89 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to both non-vested tyco electronics restricted share awards and performance shares. that cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 fiscal years. deferred stock units deferred stock units ("dsus") are notional units that are tied to the value of tyco electronics common shares with distribution deferred until termination of employment. distribution, when made, will be in the form of actual shares. similar to restricted share grants that vest through the passage of time, the fair value of dsus is determined based on the market value of the company's shares on the grant date and is amortized to expense over the vesting period. recipients of dsus do not have the right to vote such shares and do not have the right to receive cash dividends. however, they have the right to receive dividend equivalents, which are delivered at the same time as the underlying dsus. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant. during fiscal year 2007, the company granted 44,450 dsus that vested immediately. the grant date fair value of those grants was expensed immediately and was determined to be insignificant. share options share options (or options) are granted to purchase tyco electronics common shares at prices which are equal to or greater than the market price of the common shares on the date the option is granted. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant under the 2007 plan. options generally vest and become exercisable in equal annual installments over a period of four years and will generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. as a result of the separation, 7,217,640 share option awards were issued to employees and executives of tyco international and covidien. share option activity for grants by tyco international 133 prior to separation and tyco electronics subsequent to separation as of fiscal year end 2007 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: shares weighted- average exercise price weighted- average remaining contractual term aggregate intrinsic value (in years) (in millions) outstanding at september 30, 2006 32,998,698 $ 36.96 granted by tyco international prior to separation 2,440,402 30.26 exercised prior to separation (6,034,977 ) 23.92 expired prior to separation (1,498,008 ) 45.80 forfeited prior to separation (291,884 ) 30.77 awards granted pursuant to the separation 8,235,259 35.76 effect of separation on grants made by tyco international (5,422,945 ) 37.28 granted by tyco electronics subsequent to separation 3,205,100 39.72 exercised subsequent to separation (557,891 ) 24.35 expired subsequent to separation (724,573 ) 57.74 forfeited subsequent to separation (41,610 ) 39.70 outstanding at september 28, 2007 32,307,571 $ 42.86 5.3 100 vested and unvested expected to vest at september 28, 2007 31,118,728 $ 43.06 5.3 99 exercisable at september 28, 2007 24,435,466 44.53 4.1 96 the conversion of tyco international share option awards into tyco electronics share option awards at separation was considered a modification of an award in accordance with sfas no. 123r, " share based payment ." as a result, the company compared the fair value of the award immediately prior to the separation to the fair value immediately after the separation to measure incremental compensation cost. the conversion resulted in an increase in the fair value of the awards of $13 million. of that amount, the company recorded non-cash compensation expense of $11 million in separation costs in the consolidated and combined statement of operations for fiscal year 2007. the remaining $2 million of modification expense will be recorded through 2011. as of fiscal year end 2007, there was $58 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested tyco electronics share options granted under tyco electronics share option plans. the cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years. stock-based compensation effective october 1, 2005, the company adopted the provisions of sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective transition method. as a result, the company's results from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 include incremental share-based compensation expense of $40 million. total share-based compensation cost during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 of $100 million, $69 million, and $20 million, respectively, has been included in the consolidated and combined statements of operations within selling, general, and administrative expenses and separation costs. the company has recognized a 134 related tax benefit associated with its share-based compensation arrangements of $27 million, $19 million, and $6 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. prior to october 1, 2005, the company accounted for share-based compensation plans in accordance with the provisions of accounting principles board opinion no. 25, as permitted by sfas no. 123, and accordingly did not recognize compensation expense for the issuance of options with an exercise price equal to or greater than the market price of the stock at the date of grant. if tyco international and the company applied the fair value based method prescribed by sfas no. 123, for share options granted by tyco international to tyco electronics employees, the effect on net income would have been as follows: fiscal 2005 (in millions, except per share data) net income, as reported $ 1,144 add: employee compensation expense for share options included in reported net income, net of income 5 less: total employee compensation expense for share options determined under fair value method, net (35 ) net income, pro forma $ 1,114 earnings per share: basic and diluted, as reported $ 2.30 basic and diluted, pro forma 2.24 the grant-date fair value of each option grant is estimated using the black-scholes option pricing model. the fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. expected stock price volatility was calculated based on the historical volatility of the stock of a composite of peers of tyco electronics and implied volatility derived from exchange traded options on that same composite of peers. the average expected life was based on the contractual term of the option and expected employee exercise and post-vesting employment termination behavior. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. the expected annual dividend per share was based on tyco electronics' expected dividend rate. the compensation expense recognized is net of estimated forfeitures. forfeitures are estimated based on voluntary termination behavior, as well as an analysis of actual option forfeitures. 135 the weighted-average assumptions tyco international used in the black-scholes option pricing model for pre-separation fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 are as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 2005 expected stock price volatility 32 % 34 % 33 % risk free interest rate 4.3 % 4.3 % 4.1 % expected annual dividend per share $ 0.64 $ 0.40 $ 0.40 expected life of options (years) 4.9 4.0 4.3 the weighted-average assumptions tyco electronics used in the black-scholes option pricing model for post-separation grants in fiscal 2007 are as follows: fiscal 2007 expected stock price volatility 30 % risk free interest rate 4.9 % expected annual dividend per share $ 0.56 expected life of options (years) 5.2 the weighted-average grant-date fair values of tyco international options granted to tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $9.52, $8.96, and $10.97, respectively. the total intrinsic value of tyco international options exercised by tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 was $48 million, $22 million, and $32 million, respectively. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco electronics options granted during post-separation fiscal 2007 was $12.34. the total intrinsic value of tyco electronics options exercised during post-separation fiscal 2007 was $7 million. the total cash received by the company related to the exercise of options totaled $14 million. the related excess cash tax benefit classified as a financing cash inflow for fiscal 2007 in the consolidated and combined statement of cash flows was not significant. employee stock purchase plans the company has adopted the tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (the "esp plan"). substantially all full-time employees of the company's u.s. subsidiaries and employees of certain qualified non-u.s. subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in this employee share purchase plan. eligible employees authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of shares. the company matches a portion of the employee contribution by contributing an additional 15% of the employee's payroll deduction on the first $40,000 of payroll deductions. all shares purchased under the esp plan are purchased on the open market by a designated broker. the company expects to allow participation in the esp plan during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. 136 tyco electronics also maintains two other employee stock purchase plans for the benefit of employees of certain qualified non-u.s. subsidiaries. the terms of these plans provided employees the right to purchase shares of the company's stock at a stated price and receive certain tax benefits. the company has adopted the tyco electronics ltd. savings related share plan (the "uk saye plan"). under the uk saye plan, eligible employees in the united kingdom are granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at 85% of the market price at the time of grant. options under the uk saye plan are generally exercisable after a period of three years and expire six months after the date of vesting. the company expects to allow participation in the uk saye plan during the second quarter of fiscal 2008. the company also has adopted the tyco electronics ireland limited irish revenue approved profit sharing plan (the "irish bonus plan"). under the irish bonus plan, eligible employees are offered the opportunity to acquire shares using a portion of their bonus. such employees also have the opportunity to forego a portion of their basic salary to purchase additional shares. the company expects to allow participation in the irish bonus plan during the second quarter of fiscal 2008. 24. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data the company aggregates its operating segments into four reportable segments based upon the company's internal business structure. see note 1 for a description of the segments in which the company operates. segment performance is evaluated based on net sales and operating income. generally, the company considers all expenses to be of an operating nature, and, accordingly, allocates them to each reportable segment. costs specific to a segment are charged to the segment. corporate expenses, such as headquarters administrative costs, are allocated to the segments based on segment income from operations. allocated class action settlement costs, net and separation costs incurred in fiscal 2007 were not allocated to the segments. intersegment sales are not material and are recorded at selling prices that approximate market prices. net sales and income from operations by business segment are presented in the following table for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005: net sales income from operations fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) electronic components $ 10,111 $ 9,386 $ 8,757 $ 1,339 $ 1,404 $ 1,398 network solutions 1,897 1,740 1,526 231 268 225 wireless systems 887 874 871 77 (239 ) (1) 92 undersea telecommunications 565 300 279 38 15 292 (2) allocated class action settlement costs, net and separation costs (932 ) total $ 13,460 $ 12,300 $ 11,433 $ 753 $ 1,448 $ 2,007 (1) includes goodwill impairment of $316 million in fiscal 2006. see note 9 for additional information. (2) includes gain on sale of the tyco global network of $301 million in fiscal 2005. see note 5 for additional information. 137 no single customer accounted for a significant portion of sales in the years presented. as the company is not organized by product or service, it is not practicable to disclose net sales by product or service. depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows: depreciation and amortization capital expenditures fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) electronic components $ 436 $ 396 $ 396 $ 521 $ 462 $ 419 network solutions 32 32 33 52 38 28 wireless systems 45 41 46 31 51 25 undersea telecommunications 22 15 15 288 (1) 4 4 total $ 535 $ 484 $ 490 $ 892 $ 555 $ 476 (1) includes $280 million related to the company's exercise of its option to buy five cable-laying sea vessels in fiscal 2007. see note 8 for additional information. segment assets and a reconciliation of segment assets to total assets at fiscal year end 2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows: segment assets fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) electronic components $ 3,548 $ 3,320 $ 2,921 network solutions 699 592 498 wireless systems 331 314 345 undersea telecommunications 155 58 42 total segment assets (1) 4,733 4,284 3,806 other current assets 5,140 2,266 2,078 non-current assets 13,815 12,541 12,589 total assets $ 23,688 $ 19,091 $ 18,473 (1) segment assets are comprised of accounts receivable and inventory. 138 net sales by geographic region for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 and property, plant, and equipment, net by geographic area at fiscal year end 2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows: net sales (1) property, plant, and equipment, net fiscal fiscal 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) united states $ 4,409 $ 4,173 $ 4,047 $ 1,196 $ 1,199 $ 1,188 other americas 514 460 399 52 42 40 europe/middle east/africa 4,858 4,310 4,094 1,331 1,176 1,107 asia-pacific 3,679 3,357 2,893 926 (2) 659 578 total $ 13,460 $ 12,300 $ 11,433 $ 3,505 $ 3,076 $ 2,913 (1) net sales from external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale. (2) includes the five cable-laying sea vessels that the company exercised its option to buy in fiscal 2007. see note 8 for additional information. 139 25. quarterly financial data (unaudited) summarized quarterly financial data for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2007 first (1) second (2) third (3) fourth (4) (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 3,094 $ 3,335 $ 3,412 $ 3,619 gross income 815 860 862 911 income (loss) from continuing operations 240 285 (933 ) 264 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 41 (8 ) (435 ) (8 ) net income (loss) 281 277 (1,368 ) 256 basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.48 $ 0.57 $ (1.88 ) $ 0.53 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.09 (0.01 ) (0.87 ) (0.01 ) net income (loss) 0.57 0.56 (2.75 ) 0.52 diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.48 $ 0.57 $ (1.88 ) $ 0.53 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.09 (0.01 ) (0.87 ) (0.02 ) net income (loss) 0.57 0.56 (2.75 ) 0.51 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: (5) basic 497 497 497 496 diluted 497 497 497 500 (1) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $41 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 includes an $8 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) loss from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $891 million of allocated net class action settlement costs, $25 million of separation costs, $28 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $232 million of allocated loss on retirement of debt. net loss includes a $435 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) loss from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $20 million of separation costs, $51 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $13 million of other income related to the accretion of interest on certain contingent tax liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. net loss includes an $8 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (5) at separation, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. the computation of diluted loss per share excludes non-vested restricted shares and stock options of 4 million for the quarter ending june 29, 2007 as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 140 fiscal 2006 first (1) second (2) third (3) fourth (4) (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 2,817 $ 3,029 $ 3,206 $ 3,248 gross income 744 843 845 869 income from continuing operations 241 318 305 324 (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (9 ) (16 ) (7 ) 45 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) net income 224 302 298 369 basic and diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 0.48 $ 0.64 $ 0.61 $ 0.65 (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (0.02 ) (0.03 ) (0.01 ) 0.09 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (0.01 ) net income 0.45 0.61 0.60 0.74 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: (5) basic and diluted 497 497 497 497 (1) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 includes a $9 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as an $8 million loss, net of income taxes, related to the cumulative effect of accounting change recorded in conjunction with the adoption of fin 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligation an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 ." see note 2 for additional information. (2) net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 includes a $16 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 includes a $7 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 included a goodwill impairment charge of $316 million in the wireless systems segment related to the integrated wireless products reporting unit. net income includes $45 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (5) at separation, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. 26. subsequent events in october 2007, the company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its power systems business for $100 million in cash, subject to a final working capital adjustment. the company expects to recognize a gain of approximately $40 million on this divestiture. the sale transaction is expected to close in the first or second quarter of fiscal 2008. 141 27. tyco electronics group s.a. in december 2006, prior to the separation, tegsa, a wholly owned subsidiary of tyco electronics ltd., was formed. tegsa, a luxembourg company, is a holding company that owns directly, or indirectly, all of the operating subsidiaries of tyco electronics ltd. tegsa is the borrower under the company's revolving credit facility, as well as obligor under the company's senior notes issued in september 2007 and bridge loan facility, all of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, tyco electronics ltd. the following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for tyco electronics ltd., tegsa and all other subsidiaries that are not providing a guarantee of debt but which represent assets of tegsa, using the equity method. consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) net sales $ $ $ 13,460 $ $ 13,460 cost of sales 10,012 10,012 gross income 3,448 3,448 selling, general, and administrative expenses 27 (34 ) 1,671 1,664 allocated class action settlement costs, net 887 887 separation costs 45 45 restructuring and other charges, net 99 99 (loss) income from operations (914 ) 34 1,633 753 interest income 11 42 53 interest expense (105 ) (126 ) (231 ) other (expense) income, net (232 ) 13 (219 ) equity in net income of subsidiaries 770 955 (1,725 ) equity in net loss of subsidiaries held for sale (410 ) (410 ) 820 intercompany interest and fees 107 (107 ) (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest (554 ) 360 1,455 (905 ) 356 income taxes (494 ) (494 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) (loss) income from continuing operations (554 ) 360 955 (905 ) (144 ) (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (410 ) (410 ) net (loss) income $ (554 ) $ 360 $ 545 $ (905 ) $ (554 ) 142 consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) net sales $ $ 12,300 $ 12,300 cost of sales 8,999 8,999 gross income 3,301 3,301 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,524 1,524 restructuring and other charges, net 13 13 goodwill impairment 316 316 income from operations 1,448 1,448 interest income 48 48 interest expense (256 ) (256 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,240 1,240 income taxes (46 ) (46 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) income from continuing operations 1,188 1,188 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 13 13 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,201 1,201 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) (8 ) net income $ $ 1,193 $ 1,193 143 consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2005 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) net sales $ $ 11,433 $ 11,433 cost of sales 8,334 8,334 gross income 3,099 3,099 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,403 1,403 restructuring and other credits, net (10 ) (10 ) gain on divestiture (301 ) (301 ) income from operations 2,007 2,007 interest income 44 44 interest expense (293 ) (293 ) other expense, net (365 ) (365 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,393 1,393 income taxes (376 ) (376 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) income from continuing operations 1,011 1,011 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 122 122 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,133 1,133 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes 11 11 net income $ $ 1,144 $ 1,144 144 consolidating balance sheet as of september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 2 $ $ 934 $ $ 936 accounts receivable, net 2,686 2,686 inventories 2,047 2,047 class action settlement escrow 928 928 class action settlement receivable 2,064 2,064 intercompany receivables 181 29 (84 ) (126 ) prepaid expenses and other current assets (2 ) 674 672 deferred income taxes 325 325 assets held for sale 215 215 total current assets 3,173 29 6,797 (126 ) 9,873 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,505 3,505 goodwill 7,177 7,177 intangible assets, net 554 554 deferred income taxes 1,397 1,397 investment in subsidiaries 11,324 13,517 (24,841 ) investment in subsidiaries held for sale 51 51 (102 ) intercompany loans receivable 6,267 5,024 (11,291 ) receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 844 844 other assets 2 336 338 total assets $ 14,548 $ 19,866 $ 25,634 $ (36,360 ) $ 23,688 liabilities and equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ $ $ 5 $ $ 5 accounts payable 1 1,381 1,382 class action settlement liability 2,992 2,992 accrued and other current liabilities 61 3 1,386 1,450 deferred revenue 191 191 intercompany payables 29 181 (172 ) (38 ) liabilities held for sale 165 165 total current liabilities 3,083 184 2,956 (38 ) 6,185 long-term debt and obligations under capital lease 3,283 90 3,373 intercompany loans payable 88 5,024 6,267 (11,379 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 607 607 deferred income taxes 271 271 income taxes 1,242 1,242 other liabilities 618 618 total liabilities 3,171 8,491 12,051 (11,417 ) 12,296 minority interest 15 15 equity 11,377 11,375 13,568 (24,943 ) 11,377 total liabilities and equity $ 14,548 $ 19,866 $ 25,634 $ (36,360 ) $ 23,688 145 consolidating balance sheet as of september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ $ 469 $ 469 accounts receivable, net 2,434 2,434 inventories 1,850 1,850 prepaid expenses and other current assets 447 447 deferred income taxes 368 368 assets held for sale 982 982 total current assets 6,550 6,550 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,076 3,076 goodwill 7,135 7,135 intangible assets, net 576 576 deferred income taxes 1,501 1,501 other assets 253 253 total assets $ $ 19,091 $ 19,091 liabilities and equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ $ 291 $ 291 accounts payable 1,251 1,251 accrued and other current liabilities 1,307 1,307 deferred revenue 155 155 liabilities held for sale 145 145 total current liabilities 3,149 3,149 long-term debt and obligations under capital lease 3,371 3,371 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 491 491 deferred income taxes 380 380 income taxes 190 190 other liabilities 334 334 total liabilities 7,915 7,915 minority interest 16 16 equity 11,160 11,160 total liabilities and equity $ $ 19,091 $ 19,091 146 consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (74 ) $ (264 ) $ 1,876 $ $ 1,538 net cash used in discontinued operating activities (13 ) (13 ) cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (892 ) (892 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 72 72 purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (3 ) (3 ) class action settlement escrow (928 ) (928 ) proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operation, net of cash retained by business sold 227 227 decrease in intercompany loans 2,011 (2,011 ) net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (928 ) 2,011 (596 ) (2,011 ) (1,524 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (4 ) (4 ) cash flows from financing activities: debt proceeds 5,676 5,676 allocated debt activity (3,743 ) (3,743 ) repayment of debt (2,393 ) (62 ) (2,455 ) net transactions with former parent 875 (2,956 ) 3,193 1,112 changes in parent company equity 129 1,669 (1,798 ) transfers to discontinued operations (181 ) (181 ) loan borrowing from parent (2,011 ) 2,011 minority interest distributions paid (7 ) (7 ) other 5 5 net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,004 (1,747 ) (861 ) 2,011 407 net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 24 24 effect of currency translation on cash 46 46 net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2 472 474 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (7 ) (7 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 469 469 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ 2 $ $ 934 $ $ 936 147 consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash provided by operating activities $ $ 1,665 $ 1,665 net cash used in discontinued operating activities (2 ) (2 ) cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (555 ) (555 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 12 12 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (23 ) (23 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (3 ) (3 ) other 26 26 net cash used in investing activities (543 ) (543 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (96 ) (96 ) cash flows from financing activities: allocated debt activity (731 ) (731 ) repayment of debt (113 ) (113 ) net transactions with former parent (74 ) (74 ) transfers from discontinued operations 2 2 minority interest distributions paid (12 ) (12 ) other (4 ) (4 ) net cash used in financing activities (932 ) (932 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 104 104 effect of currency translation on cash (1 ) (1 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents 195 195 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (6 ) (6 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 280 280 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ $ 469 $ 469 148 consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2005 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash provided by operating activities $ $ 1,546 $ 1,546 net cash used in discontinued operating activities (35 ) (35 ) cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (476 ) (476 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 23 23 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (12 ) (12 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (8 ) (8 ) proceeds from divestiture of business, net of cash retained by business sold 130 130 other 61 61 net cash used in investing activities (282 ) (282 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (4 ) (4 ) cash flows from financing activities: allocated debt activity (1,330 ) (1,330 ) repayment of debt (114 ) (114 ) net transactions with former parent 85 85 transfers to discontinued operations (16 ) (16 ) minority interest distributions paid (12 ) (12 ) other (1 ) (1 ) net cash used in financing activities (1,388 ) (1,388 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 35 35 effect of currency translation on cash 11 11 net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (117 ) (117 ) less: net decrease in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations 4 4 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year $ 393 $ 393 cash and cash equivalents at the end of fiscal year $ $ 280 $ 280 149 tyco electronics ltd. schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 description balance at beginning of year additions charged to costs and expenses acquisitions, divestitures and other deductions balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2007 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable $ 59 $ 8 $ 4 $ (11 ) $ 60 fiscal 2006 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 69 2 1 (13 ) 59 fiscal 2005 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 66 17 6 (20 ) 69 150 quicklinks tyco electronics ltd. table of contents special note about forward-looking statements part i item 1a. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective is to manage our foreign currency exposures on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 28, 2007 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $59 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $72 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 29, 2006 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $6 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $8 million. however, such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of the 69 fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of the variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). at september 28, 2007, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. based on our floating rate debt balance of $1,250 million at september 28, 2007, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. see note 14 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 11 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business current and future conditions in the global economy and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. as a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. if the global economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additionally, we are heavily dependent on the end market industry dynamics for our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand patterns of these markets. for example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, is experiencing a significant downturn described below. the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 23% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation, which reflects current market conditions. the aerospace and defense industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, has similarly undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. these periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we are dependent on the automotive industry which is experiencing significant declines in the current economic environment. approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 were to customers in the automotive industry. automotive manufacturers globally are experiencing significant declines in sales of vehicles from the current economic downturn, credit conditions, and volatile fuel costs. additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 23% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change and has been affected by declines in consumer and business spending due to global economic conditions. additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their 11 suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our failure to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. approximately 9% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends primarily on underlying business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products, which has been affected by reduced spending due to global economic conditions. the amount of this demand and therefore our sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including the rate of technological change, degree of consumer acceptance of new products, and general economic conditions. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and credit markets globally have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. if these conditions continue or worsen, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth. the markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological change. our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. there are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure each year to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 3%. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 12 we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace and defense industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, and zinc. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including copper and gold, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. over the last three years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 54% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to the development cycles. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. during fiscal 2008, we have sold or discontinued businesses and product lines with annualized net sales of approximately $1 billion, and we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may continue to sell businesses or product lines. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the 13 diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with the current credit crisis, have caused significant volatility in interest rates and equity prices, which could decrease the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. we also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. if we fail to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes, concerns about the potential for material errors in our financial reporting could cause the value of our securities to be adversely affected. subsequent to the filing of our combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement on form 10 with the sec, we determined that our combined financial statements contained certain errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. we substantially relied upon the processes at tyco international to prepare our carve-out accounts for income taxes. we have determined that certain of those tax processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. concurrently, we determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. subsequent to separation, in our periodic reports we continued to disclose a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. as of september 26, 2008, management has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a sufficient period of time 14 and, accordingly, has further concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of september 26, 2008. unless we remediate the material weakness, concerns about the potential for material errors in our financial reporting could adversely affect the value of our securities. if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets is found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. we are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the united states. non-u.s. markets account for a substantial portion of our business. during fiscal 2008, non-u.s. markets constituted over 69% of our net sales. we employ more than 82% of our workforce outside the united states. our customers are located throughout the world and we have many manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities outside the united states. because of our extensive non-u.s. operations, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; longer payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as compared to the united states, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held abroad; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. many of our products that are manufactured outside of the united states are manufactured in asia. in particular, we have sizeable operations in china, including manufacturing operations, and in fiscal 2008, 12% of our net sales were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. 15 we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and non-u.s. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. environmental laws outside of the united states are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of 16 hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction on hazardous substances, end of life vehicle and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. we cannot predict the extent to which these laws will proliferate in other jurisdictions or expand to address other materials or other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement or that we will not pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the size and importance of the patent or trademark in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, and product liability. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreement contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. 17 the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to repurchase the notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. future acquisitions may not be successful. we will continue to investigate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offering. we cannot assure you, however, that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. risks relating to our separation from tyco international we are responsible for a portion of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities, including those relating to shareholder litigation. in connection with our separation from tyco international on june 29, 2007, we, tyco international, and covidien ltd. ("covidien") entered into a separation and distribution agreement which governs the relationships among us, tyco international, and covidien subsequent to the separation and provided for the allocation among us, tyco international, and covidien of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement among the parties, we, tyco international, and covidien have agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation, any actions with respect to the separation plan or the distribution brought by any third party and tax liabilities for periods prior to and including the date of separation of june 29, 2007. for more information on the contingent tax liabilities, see "we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date." contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which were allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. 18 prior to the announcement by tyco international of the planned separation of tyco electronics and covidien in january 2006, tyco international and certain of its former directors and officers were named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action lawsuits, most of which were part of a class action settlement of 32 lawsuits reached in 2007, for which we were responsible for 31%. holders of approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members opted out of the class action settlement and a number of these individuals and entities have filed actions separately against tyco international and/or tyco international, covidien, and us. two additional securities cases were settled in fiscal 2008. several securities cases remain outstanding, including several cases asserting claims arising under the employee retirement income security act ("erisa"). as a part of the separation and distribution agreement, any existing or potential liabilities related to the securities actions were allocated among tyco international, covidien, and us. we are responsible for 31% of potential liabilities that may arise upon the resolution of the remaining pending litigation. if the unresolved securities proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco international, our share of any additional potential losses under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. tyco international has the right to control the defense and settlement of outstanding securities litigation, subject to certain limitations. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlements of outstanding litigation may not be in our best interests. furthermore, in the event of any future settlements, we may have limited notice before we would be required to pay our portion of the settlement amount. moreover, tyco international stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that we, tyco international, and covidien each will be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations arising from the tyco international shareholder litigation. the stipulation also provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties are jointly and severally liable for the defaulting party's obligations. we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, tyco international, and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, have become our tax liabilities. although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. 19 our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that we have assessed under the provisions of financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109, " have been reflected as a liability in the consolidated and combined financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. we recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco international, and covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. 20 in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, then we, tyco international, or covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution by tyco international. similar limitations and restrictions apply to tyco international and covidien. the distribution may result in corporate level taxable gain to tyco international under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, tyco international's common shares, or covidien's common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of tyco international's common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, tyco international's common shares, or covidien's common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, tyco international or covidien may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of tyco international's common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, tyco international's common shares, or covidien's common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, tyco international would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of tyco international or covidien or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving, or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. tyco international and covidien are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax-favored transaction under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's 21 acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our securityholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. tax legislation we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. the u.s. congress has in the past considered and is anticipated to continue to consider legislation affecting the tax treatment of companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions or companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. we continue to monitor such potential u.s. federal legislative proposals, as well as potential proposals relating to deductible payments from u.s. subsidiaries to foreign parents. tax legislation may be introduced, passed, or modified by the u.s. congress in the future that would have material adverse effects on us if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise materially adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. legislation relating to governmental contracts we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that move their corporate locations abroad. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to the u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money 22 rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company also may agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. risks relating to our common shares the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; extreme volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by the global economic downturn and deterioration of credit conditions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies. certain provisions of our bye-laws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our bye-laws contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these bye-law provisions: shareholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors; shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent; shareholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at shareholder meetings; restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination (including an amalgamation under bermuda law) between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors; and our board of directors may without shareholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a shareholder rights plan. these provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. 23 risk factors." there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective is to manage our foreign currency exposures on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 26, 2008 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $95 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $116 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 28, 2007 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $59 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $72 million. however, such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. 65 interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of the fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of the variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). at september 26, 2008, we had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of our 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of our 6.00% senior notes. at september 28, 2007, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. based on our floating rate debt balances of $1,147 million and $1,250 million at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we have used and may use in the future forward or option contracts. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to twenty-four months and periodically enter into commodity forward or option contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 26, 2008, we had entered into commodity forward contracts, specifically related to gold, designated as cash flow hedges for a notional value of $21 million. a 10% appreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 26, 2008 prices would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of prices would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. see note 15 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. item 8. financial statements and supplementary data the following consolidated and combined financial statements and schedule specified by this item, together with the reports thereon of deloitte &amp; touche llp, are presented following item 15 and the signature pages of this report: financial statements: reports of independent registered public accounting firm consolidated and combined statements of operations for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 consolidated balance sheets at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 consolidated and combined statements of equity for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 consolidated and combined statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 notes to consolidated and combined financial statements financial statement schedule: schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts 66 all other financial statements and schedules have been omitted since the information required to be submitted has been included in the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes or because they are either not applicable or not required under the rules of regulation s-x. item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures none. item 9a. controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rule 13a-15(e) under the exchange act) as of september 26, 2008. based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of september 26, 2008, because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for income taxes described in our information statement filed as exhibit 99.1 to our current report on form 8-k on june 8, 2007 and in management's report on internal control over financial reporting below. disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act). management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we previously disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. subsequent to the filing of our combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement with the sec, we determined that our combined financial statements contained certain errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. we substantially relied upon the processes at tyco international to prepare our carve-out accounts for income taxes. we determined that certain of those tax processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. we also determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to income taxes. as of september 26, 2008, management has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a sufficient period of time and, accordingly, has further concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of september 26, 2008. 67 a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies and procedures may deteriorate. deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, which is included in this annual report. changes in internal control over financial reporting we have enhanced our tax accounting resources and capabilities to remediate the material weakness indicated above, and have implemented new control processes and procedures over the past several months. improvements to our control processes included the following: we implemented appropriately designed processes and controls and instituted multi-level management reviews. we completed analysis and reconciliation of our tax accounts and recorded necessary adjustments while implementing sustainable reconciliation processes to ensure continued accuracy of these accounts. we enhanced policies and procedures relating to tax account reconciliation and analysis. we expanded tax accounting resources at both the corporate and regional levels with personnel experienced in accounting for income taxes in accordance with u.s. gaap. we conducted training for both existing and newly hired tax accountants along with other accounting and finance personnel who are responsible for analyzing, documenting and accounting for taxes in their jurisdiction. we increased accountability for accounting for income taxes by recording tax accounting at the legal entity, developed and communicated clear responsibilities and expectations, and implemented a multi-level review process. we invested in additional information systems to improve control around newly implemented processes and enable more effective review. although we believe that the improvements in our control processes as designed are adequate to remediate the material weakness, we will not consider the material weakness to be remediated until the new processes operate for a sufficient period of time, and we are confident that they are operating effectively. item 9b. other information none. 68 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information concerning directors, executive officers and corporate governance may be found under the captions "proposal number one: election of directors," "nominees for election," "corporate governance," "the board of directors and board committees," and "executive officers" in our definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual general meeting of shareholders (the "2009 proxy statement"), which will be filed with the sec within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year. such information is incorporated herein by reference. the information in the 2009 proxy statement set forth under the caption "section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance" is incorporated herein by reference. code of ethics we have adopted the tyco electronics guide to ethical conduct, which applies to all employees, officers, and directors of tyco electronics. our guide to ethical conduct meets the requirements of a "code of ethics" as defined by item 406 of regulation s-k and applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and chief accounting officer, as well as all other employees and directors, as indicated above. our guide to ethical conduct also meets the requirements of a code of business conduct and ethics under the listing standards of the nyse. our guide to ethical conduct is posted on our website at www.tycoelectronics.com under the heading "who we are quick links guide to ethical conduct." we also will provide a copy of our guide to ethical conduct to shareholders upon request. we intend to disclose any amendments to our guide to ethical conduct, as well as any waivers for executive officers or directors, on our website. item 11. executive compensation information concerning executive compensation may be found under the captions "compensation discussion and analysis," "management development and compensation committee report," "executive officer compensation," "compensation of non-employee directors," and "compensation committee interlocks and insider participation" in our 2009 proxy statement. such information is incorporated herein by reference. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information in our 2009 proxy statement set forth under the caption "security ownership of certain beneficial owners, directors and executive officers" is incorporated herein by reference. see "part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities equity compensation plan information" for information about securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information in our 2009 proxy statement set forth under the captions "corporate governance," "the board of directors and board committees," and "certain relationships and related transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information in our 2009 proxy statement set forth under the captions "proposal number three: appointment of independent auditor and authorization of audit committee to set remuneration of independent auditor," "fees paid to independent auditor," and "policy for the pre-approval of audit and non-audit services" is incorporated herein by reference. 69 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements. see item 8. 2. financial statement schedule. see item 8. 3. exhibit index: exhibit number description 2.1 separation and distribution agreement among tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 2.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 3.1 memorandum of association of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to amendment no. 3 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed june 5, 2007) 3.2 certificate of incorporation of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.2 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed january 18, 2007) 3.3 amended and restated bye-laws of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 4.1(a) indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(a) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(b) first supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(b) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(c) second supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(c) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(d) third supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(d) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(e) fourth supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of july 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 14, 2008) 10.1 tax sharing agreement among tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 70 exhibit number description 10.2 five-year senior credit agreement among tyco international ltd., tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd., the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, dated as of april 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.3 guarantor assumption agreement between tyco international ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.6 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.4 tyco electronics ltd. 2007 stock and incentive plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form s-8, filed july 5, 2007) 10.5 tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form s-8, filed july 5, 2007) 10.6 form of founders' grant option award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.7 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.7 form of option award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.11 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.8 form of founders' grant restricted unit award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.8 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.9 form of restricted unit award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.13 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.10 tyco electronics ltd. change in control severance plan for certain u.s. officers and executives (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.11 tyco electronics ltd. severance plan for u.s. officers and executives (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.12 tyco electronics ltd. deferred compensation plan for directors (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.16 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.13 tyco electronics corporation supplemental savings and retirement plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.14 tyco electronics ltd. uk savings related share plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.23 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.15 form of indemnification agreement (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.9 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 71 exhibit number description 10.16 amendment to tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended december 28, 2007, filed february 7, 2008) 10.17 consulting agreement between tyco electronics ltd. and juergen gromer, dated as of january 15, 2008 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed january 22, 2008) 10.18 stock and asset purchase agreement among tyco electronics group s.a., cobham defense electronic systems corporation and cobham plc, dated as of may 12, 2008 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended june 27, 2008, filed august 1, 2008) 21.1 subsidiaries of tyco electronics ltd.* 23.1 consent of independent registered public accounting firm* 24.1 power of attorney* 31.1 certification by the chief executive officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* 31.2 certification by the chief financial officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* 32.1 certification by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* * filed herewith management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. (b) see item 15(a)3. above. (c) see item 15(a)2. above. 72 signatures pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. tyco electronics ltd. by: /s/ terrence r. curtin terrence r. curtin executive vice president and chief financial officer (principal financial officer) date: november 20, 2008 pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. signature title date /s/ thomas j. lynch thomas j. lynch chief executive officer and director (principal executive officer) november 20, 2008 /s/ terrence r. curtin terrence r. curtin executive vice president and chief financial officer (principal financial officer) november 20, 2008 /s/ robert j. ott robert j. ott senior vice president and corporate controller (principal accounting officer) november 20, 2008 * pierre r. brondeau director november 20, 2008 * ram charan director november 20, 2008 * juergen w. gromer director november 20, 2008 * robert m. hernandez director november 20, 2008 73 signature title date * daniel j. phelan director november 20, 2008 * frederic m. poses director november 20, 2008 * lawrence s. smith director november 20, 2008 * paula a. sneed director november 20, 2008 * david p. steiner director november 20, 2008 * sandra s. wijnberg director november 20, 2008 * robert a. scott, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document on behalf of the above noted individuals, pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by such individuals, which have been filed as exhibit 24.1 to this report. by: /s/ robert a. scott robert a. scott attorney-in-fact 74 tyco electronics ltd. index to consolidated and combined financial statements page reports of independent registered public accounting firm 76 consolidated and combined statements of operations for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 80 consolidated balance sheets as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 81 consolidated and combined statements of equity for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 82 consolidated and combined statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 83 notes to consolidated and combined financial statements 84 schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts 153 75 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the tyco electronics ltd. board of directors: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tyco electronics ltd. and subsidiaries (the "company") as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 and the related consolidated and combined statements of operations, equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended september 26, 2008. our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. these consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and combined financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated and combined financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the company as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended september 26, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated and combined financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, prior to its separation from tyco international ltd. ("tyco international"), the company was comprised of the assets and liabilities used in managing and operating the electronics businesses of tyco international. the combined financial statements also included allocations of corporate overhead, net class action settlement costs, other expenses, debt and related interest expense from tyco international. these allocations may not be reflective of the actual level of costs or debt which would have been incurred had the company operated as a separate entity apart from tyco international. as discussed in notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2008, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 . as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2007, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 158, employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r). as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in connection with its separation from tyco international, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments with tyco international and covidien ltd. and has recorded the fair value of these guarantees. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated 76 november 20, 2008 expressed an adverse opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting because of a material weakness. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp philadelphia, pennsylvania november 20, 2008 77 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the tyco electronics ltd. board of directors: we have audited tyco electronics ltd. and subsidiaries' (the "company's") internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on that risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. the following material weakness has been identified and included in management's assessment: the company did not maintain effective internal control over accounting for income taxes. subsequent to the filing of its combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of its registration statement with the sec, the company determined that the combined financial statements contained errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. the company substantially relied upon the processes at 78 tyco international to prepare its carve-out accounts for income taxes. the company determined that certain of the processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to the company's materiality to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. the company also determined that it did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate, and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting relating to income taxes. as of september 26, 2008, the company has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a sufficient period of time and, accordingly, has further concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of september 26, 2008. this material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule of the company as of and for the year ended september 26, 2008, and this report does not affect our report on such financial statements and financial statement schedule. in our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness identified above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the company has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule of the company as of and for the year ended september 26, 2008, and our report dated november 20, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule and includes an explanatory paragraph referring to the adoption of statement of financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp philadelphia, pennsylvania november 20, 2008 79 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of operations fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 14,834 $ 12,959 $ 11,811 cost of sales 11,064 9,620 8,617 gross income 3,770 3,339 3,194 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,680 1,600 1,445 litigation settlement, net 22 887 separation costs 44 restructuring and other charges, net 185 92 7 impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 137 income from operations 1,746 716 1,742 interest income 32 53 48 interest expense (188 ) (231 ) (256 ) other income (expense), net 567 (219 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 2,157 319 1,534 income taxes (558 ) (491 ) (81 ) minority interest (5 ) (6 ) (6 ) income (loss) from continuing operations 1,594 (178 ) 1,447 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 188 (376 ) (246 ) income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,782 (554 ) 1,201 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) net income (loss) $ 1,782 $ (554 ) $ 1,193 basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 3.30 $ (0.36 ) $ 2.91 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.39 (0.75 ) (0.49 ) income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 3.69 (1.11 ) 2.42 cumulative effect of accounting change (0.02 ) net income (loss) $ 3.69 $ (1.11 ) $ 2.40 diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 3.28 $ (0.36 ) $ 2.91 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.39 (0.75 ) (0.49 ) income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 3.67 (1.11 ) 2.42 cumulative effect of accounting change (0.02 ) net income (loss) $ 3.67 $ (1.11 ) $ 2.40 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: basic 483 497 497 diluted 486 497 497 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 80 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated balance sheets as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions, except share data) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,086 $ 942 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $42 and $57, respectively 2,726 2,594 inventories 2,312 2,049 class action settlement escrow 928 class action settlement receivable 2,064 prepaid expenses and other current assets 767 589 deferred income taxes 204 325 assets of discontinued operations 505 total current assets 7,095 9,996 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,517 3,412 goodwill 7,068 7,177 intangible assets, net 486 526 deferred income taxes 1,915 1,397 receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 1,218 844 other assets 301 336 total assets $ 21,600 $ 23,688 liabilities and shareholders' equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ 20 $ 5 accounts payable 1,469 1,343 class action settlement liability 2,992 accrued and other current liabilities 1,596 1,417 deferred revenue 247 181 liabilities of discontinued operations 266 total current liabilities 3,332 6,204 long-term debt 3,161 3,373 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 721 607 deferred income taxes 289 271 income taxes 2,291 1,242 other liabilities 723 599 total liabilities 10,517 12,296 commitments and contingencies (note 17) minority interest 10 15 shareholders' equity: preferred shares, $0.20 par value, 125,000,000 shares authorized; none outstanding common shares, $0.20 par value, 1,000,000,000 authorized; 500,241,706 and 497,467,930 issued, respectively 100 99 capital in excess: share premium 61 13 contributed surplus 10,106 10,029 accumulated earnings 1,141 186 treasury shares, at cost, 36,904,702 and 44,454 shares, respectively (1,264 ) (2 ) accumulated other comprehensive income 929 1,052 total shareholders' equity 11,073 11,377 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 21,600 $ 23,688 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 81 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of equity fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 common shares treasury shares accumulated other comprehensive income share premium contributed surplus parent company investment accumulated earnings total equity shares amount shares amount (in millions) balance at october 1, 2005 $ $ $ $ $ 9,511 $ $ 331 $ 9,842 comprehensive income: net income 1,193 1,193 currency translation 242 242 minimum pension liability, net of income taxes 97 97 total comprehensive income 1,532 net transfers to former parent (214 ) (214 ) balance at september 29, 2006 10,490 670 11,160 comprehensive income: net income (loss) (810 ) 256 (554 ) currency translation 453 453 minimum pension liability, net of income taxes 207 207 unrealized loss on cash flow hedge (53 ) (53 ) total comprehensive income 53 impact of adoption of sfas no. 158, net of tax (225 ) (225 ) net transfers from former parent 848 848 transfer of parent company investment to contributed surplus 10,528 (10,528 ) guarantees and shared tax liabilities to tyco international and covidien in accordance with the tax sharing agreement (296 ) (296 ) due from tyco international and covidien in accordance with the tax sharing agreement 844 844 income tax liabilities assumed upon separation (1,091 ) (1,091 ) issuance of common shares 497 99 99 compensation expense, including charge related to tyco international equity award conversion 44 44 dividends declared (70 ) (70 ) exercise of share options 13 13 repurchase of common shares (2 ) (2 ) balance at september 28, 2007 497 99 (2 ) 13 10,029 186 1,052 11,377 adoption of fin 48 (549 ) (549 ) comprehensive income: net income 1,782 1,782 currency translation (22 ) (22 ) adjustments to unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs, net of income taxes (107 ) (107 ) gain on cash flow hedge 7 7 unrealized loss on securities, net of income taxes (1 ) (1 ) total comprehensive income 1,659 adjustment for pre-separation tax matters 16 16 compensation expense 61 61 dividends declared (276 ) (276 ) exercise of share options 3 1 7 48 (2 ) 54 repurchase of common shares (37 ) (1,269 ) (1,269 ) balance at september 26, 2008 500 $ 100 (37 ) $ (1,264 ) $ 61 $ 10,106 $ $ 1,141 $ 929 $ 11,073 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 82 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of cash flows fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net income (loss) $ 1,782 $ (554 ) $ 1,193 (income) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (188 ) 376 246 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes 8 income (loss) from continuing operations 1,594 (178 ) 1,447 adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by operating activities: class action settlement (936 ) 887 non-cash restructuring and other charges, net 47 23 4 depreciation and amortization 559 514 459 deferred income taxes 174 163 (14 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 41 82 62 tax sharing income (567 ) (13 ) allocated loss on retirement of debt 232 impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 137 other 43 (9 ) 12 changes in assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisitions and divestitures: accounts receivable, net (106 ) (96 ) (126 ) inventories (280 ) (89 ) (351 ) other current assets 57 (138 ) (53 ) accounts payable 49 84 257 accrued and other liabilities 126 103 95 income taxes 15 (109 ) (179 ) deferred revenue 112 33 6 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 3 25 other (54 ) 19 (20 ) net cash provided by continuing operating activities 1,014 1,508 1,624 net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operating activities (25 ) 17 39 net cash provided by operating activities 989 1,525 1,663 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (619 ) (875 ) (519 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 42 41 6 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (3 ) (23 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (2 ) (4 ) (4 ) class action settlement escrow 936 (928 ) proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operation, net of cash retained by businesses sold 571 227 other (24 ) 1 27 net cash provided by (used in) continuing investing activities 901 (1,538 ) (513 ) net cash (used in) provided by discontinued investing activities (6 ) 10 (126 ) net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 895 (1,528 ) (639 ) cash flows from financing activities: net increase in commercial paper 630 proceeds from long-term debt 900 5,676 repayment of long-term debt (1,751 ) (2,455 ) (113 ) allocated debt activity (3,743 ) (713 ) net transactions with former parent 1,112 (74 ) repurchase of common shares (1,242 ) payment of common dividends (271 ) proceeds from exercise of share options 54 13 transfers to discontinued operations (80 ) (134 ) (7 ) minority interest distributions paid (11 ) (7 ) (12 ) other (1 ) (8 ) (4 ) net cash (used in) provided by continuing financing activities (1,772 ) 454 (923 ) net cash provided by (used in) discontinued financing activities 33 (23 ) 95 net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (1,739 ) 431 (828 ) effect of currency translation on cash 1 46 (1 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents 146 474 195 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (2 ) (4 ) (8 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 942 472 285 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ 1,086 $ 942 $ 472 supplementary cash flow information: interest paid $ 100 $ 231 $ 261 income taxes paid, net of refunds 369 450 274 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 83 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements 1. separation and basis of presentation tyco electronics ltd. ("tyco electronics" or the "company"), a company organized under the laws of bermuda, is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions, undersea telecommunication systems, and wireless systems. the separation effective june 29, 2007, the company became the parent company of the former electronics businesses of tyco international ltd. ("tyco international"). on june 29, 2007, tyco international distributed all of its shares of tyco electronics, as well as its shares of its former healthcare businesses ("covidien"), to its common shareholders (the "separation"). basis of presentation the accompanying consolidated and combined financial statements reflect the consolidated operations of tyco electronics ltd. and its subsidiaries as an independent, publicly-traded company subsequent to the separation and a combined reporting entity comprising the assets and liabilities used in managing and operating the electronics businesses of tyco international, including tyco electronics ltd., for periods prior to the separation. the consolidated and combined financial statements have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"). the preparation of the consolidated and combined financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to make use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. significant estimates in these consolidated and combined financial statements include restructuring and other charges, acquisition liabilities, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, estimates of future cash flows associated with asset impairments, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, loss contingencies, net realizable value of inventories, estimated contract revenue and related costs, legal liabilities, tax reserves and deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for pension and postretirement employee benefit expenses. actual results could differ materially from these estimates. the consolidated and combined financial statements for periods prior to the separation may not be indicative of the company's future performance and do not necessarily reflect what its consolidated and combined results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would have been had it operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented. to the extent that an asset, liability, revenue, or expense is directly associated with the company, it is reflected in the accompanying consolidated and combined financial statements. certain general corporate overhead, net class action settlement costs, and other expenses as well as debt and related net interest expense for periods prior to the separation were allocated by tyco international to the company. management believes such allocations were reasonable; however, they may not be indicative of the actual results of the company had the company been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. see note 18 for further information regarding allocations. 84 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 1. separation and basis of presentation (continued) description of the business the company consists of four reportable segments: electronic components. the electronic components segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of passive electronic components, which includes connectors and interconnect systems, relays, switches, circuit protection devices, touch screens, sensors, and wire and cable. the products sold by the electronic components segment are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their contract manufacturers in the automotive, computer, communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, appliance, consumer electronics, and medical markets. network solutions. the network solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for telecommunications and energy markets. these components include connectors, above- and below-ground enclosures, heat shrink tubing, cable accessories, surge arrestors, fiber optic cabling, copper cabling, and racks for copper and fiber networks. this segment also provides electronic systems for test access and intelligent cross-connect applications as well as integrated cabling solutions for cabling and building management. undersea telecommunications. the undersea telecommunications segment designs, builds, maintains, and tests undersea fiber optic networks for both the telecommunications and oil and gas markets. wireless systems. the wireless systems segment is an innovator of wireless technology for critical communications systems. this segment provides state-of-the-art two-way land mobile radio technology products and systems, including network and system infrastructure, portable radios, service, and maintenance. these products and systems are used primarily by public safety and government organizations. principles of consolidation the company consolidates entities in which it owns or controls more than fifty percent of the voting shares or otherwise has the ability to control through similar rights. in addition, the company consolidates variable interest entities in which the company bears a majority of the risk to the entities' expected losses or stands to gain from a majority of the entities' expected returns. all intercompany transactions have been eliminated. the results of companies acquired or disposed of are included in the consolidated and combined financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. fiscal year unless otherwise indicated, references in the consolidated and combined financial statements to fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2006 are to tyco electronics' fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006. tyco electronics' fiscal year is a "52-53 week" year ending on the last friday of september, such that each quarterly period is 13 weeks in length. for fiscal years in which there are 53 weeks, the fourth quarter reporting period will include 14 weeks, with the first such occurrence taking place in fiscal 2011. 85 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 1. separation and basis of presentation (continued) reclassifications certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period classification. 2. summary of significant accounting policies revenue recognition the company's revenues are generated principally from the sale of its products. revenue from the sale of products is recognized at the time title and risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer. this generally occurs when the products reach the free-on-board shipping point, the sales price is fixed and determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. for those items where title has not yet transferred, the company has deferred the recognition of revenue. the company provides certain distributors with an inventory allowance for returns or scrap equal to a percentage of qualified purchases. a reserve for estimated scrap and returns allowances is established at the time of the sale based on a fixed percentage of sales to distributors authorized and agreed to by the company and is recorded as a reduction of sales. other allowances include customer quantity and price discrepancies. a reserve for other allowances is established at the time of sale based on historical experience and is recorded as a reduction of sales. the company believes it can reasonably and reliably estimate the amounts of future allowances. contract sales for construction related projects are recorded primarily on the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related cost to complete. percentage-of-completion is measured based on the ratio of actual cost incurred to total estimated cost. revisions in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits in the current period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they first become determinable. contract sales for construction related projects are generated primarily within the company's undersea telecommunications and wireless systems segments. the company typically warrants that its products will conform to the company's specifications and that its products will be free from material defects in materials and manufacturing. the company limits its liability to the replacement of defective parts or the cash value of replacement parts. the company accepts returned goods only when the customer makes a claim and management has authorized the return. returns result primarily from defective products or shipping discrepancies. a reserve for estimated returns is established at the time of sale based on historical return experience and is recorded as a reduction of sales. additionally, certain of the company's long-term contracts in its undersea telecommunications and wireless systems segments have warranty obligations. estimated warranty costs for each contract are determined based on the contract terms and technology-specific considerations. these costs are included in total estimated contract costs and are accrued over the construction period of the respective contracts under percentage-of-completion accounting. on september 19, 2005, the company's wireless systems segment entered into a twenty-year lease contract with the state of new york to construct, operate, and maintain a statewide wireless 86 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) communications network for use by state and municipal first responders. lease terms and payment streams begin when each of the regional networks that make up the statewide network are determined to meet the operational requirements of the contract and are accepted by the state of new york, with the lease terms running through september 2025. the company is accounting for each regional network as a stand-alone sales-type lease and will recognize revenue on acceptance of each region. as of september 26, 2008, the first region has not been accepted by the state; therefore, the company has not recognized any revenue on the construction of the network. revenue recognition related to the operating and maintenance service elements begins following regional acceptance. as of fiscal year end 2008, 2007, and 2006, costs totaling $56 million, $28 million, and $8 million, respectively, associated with the development and construction of the statewide wireless network, including interest expense incurred to finance the construction, have been capitalized primarily as inventories on the consolidated balance sheets. on august 29, 2008, the company was served by the state of new york with a default notice related to the first regional network, pursuant to the contract. under the contract, the company had 45 days to rectify the deficiencies noted by the state. on october 16, 2008, the company certified the system ready for testing and presented its conclusions to the state of new york. the company informed the state that all deficiencies had been remediated and the system is operating in accordance with the contract specifications. the state's testing is scheduled to occur in november and december 2008. research and development research and development expenditures are expensed when incurred and are included in cost of sales. research and development expenses include salaries, direct costs incurred, and building and overhead expenses. the amounts expensed in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $530 million, $482 million, and $428 million, respectively. cash and cash equivalents all highly liquid investments purchased with maturities of three months or less from the time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. allowance for doubtful accounts the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable losses inherent in the company's outstanding receivables determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts, and other currently available evidence. inventories inventories are recorded at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market value. 87 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) property, plant, and equipment, net and long-lived assets net property, plant, and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. maintenance and repair expenditures are charged to expense when incurred. depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows: buildings and related improvements 5 to 40 years leasehold improvements lesser of remaining term of the lease or economic useful life machinery and equipment 1 to 15 years the company periodically evaluates the net realizable value of long-lived assets, including property, plant, and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, relying on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. when indicators of potential impairment are present, the carrying values of the assets are evaluated in relation to the operating performance and estimated future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying business. an impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. the amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its fair value. fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. goodwill and other intangible assets intangible assets acquired include both those that have a determinable life and residual goodwill. intangible assets with a determinable life include primarily intellectual property consisting of patents, trademarks, and unpatented technology with estimates of recoverability ranging from 1 to 50 years that are amortized on a straight-line basis. see note 11 for additional information regarding intangible assets. an evaluation of the remaining useful life of intangible assets with a determinable life is performed on a periodic basis and when events and circumstances warrant an evaluation. the company assesses intangible assets with a determinable life for impairment consistent with its policy for assessing other long-lived assets. goodwill is assessed for impairment separately from other intangible assets with a determinable life by comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit to its fair value on the first day of the fourth quarter of each year or whenever the company believes a triggering event requiring a more frequent assessment has occurred. in making this assessment, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, transactions, and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. the company has 14 reporting units, of which 13 contained goodwill prior to the annual goodwill impairment test. see notes 5 and 10 for information regarding the goodwill impairment recorded as a result of the annual impairment test. when changes occur in the composition of one or more operating segments or reporting units, the goodwill is reassigned to the reporting units affected based on their relative fair values. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company performs a step i goodwill impairment test to identify a potential impairment. in doing so, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit 88 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill may be impaired and a step ii goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. in the step ii goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. estimates about fair value used in the step i goodwill impairment tests have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. the income approach has been supported by other valuation approaches, such as similar transaction and guideline analyses. these approaches incorporate many assumptions including future growth rates, discount factors, and income tax rates in assessing fair value. changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. income taxes income taxes are computed in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 109, " accounting for income taxes ." in these consolidated and combined financial statements, the benefits of a consolidated return have been reflected where such returns have or could be filed based on the entities and jurisdictions included in the financial statements. deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the consolidated and combined financial statements. deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the differences between the book and tax bases of particular assets and liabilities and operating loss carryforwards using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. a valuation allowance is provided to offset deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. effective september 29, 2007, the beginning of fiscal 2008, the company adopted financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation no. ("fin") 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109. " see additional discussion below under "recently adopted accounting pronouncements." financial instruments in order to address certain financial exposures, the company adopted a risk management program that includes the use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments. the company has established policies regarding the types and notional value of derivative financial instruments that can be entered into. the company currently enters into foreign exchange forwards and swaps to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposures, and forward contracts to reduce the effects of commodity price fluctuations. also, the company has designated certain intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies 89 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) as a hedge of its net investments in certain foreign operations denominated in the same foreign currencies. all derivative financial instruments are reported on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges are recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges affect the carrying value of the asset or liability hedged, with changes in both the derivative instrument and the hedged asset or liability being recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges are reflected in other comprehensive income, a component of equity, to the extent that they are deemed effective. effectiveness of cash flow hedges is measured quarterly using the cumulative-dollar-offset-method and any changes in fair value that are determined to be ineffective are recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses. the remeasurement of the intercompany non-derivative financial instruments designated as a hedge of the company's net investment in foreign operations is recorded in cumulative translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheets offsetting the change in cumulative translation adjustment attributable to the company's net investments in certain foreign operations. the company determines the fair value of its financial instruments by using methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. standard market conventions are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments, including derivatives. share-based compensation the company adopted sfas no. 123r, " share-based payment ," on october 1, 2005 using the modified prospective transition method. under sfas no. 123r, the company determines the fair value of share awards on the date of grant using the black-scholes-merton valuation model. that fair value is expensed ratably over the expected service period, with an allowance made for estimated forfeitures based on historical employee activity. see note 24 for additional information related to the company's share-based compensation. share premium and contributed surplus in accordance with the bermuda companies act 1981, when the company issues shares for cash at a premium to their par value, the resulting premium is credited to a share premium account, a non-distributable reserve. contributed surplus, subject to certain conditions, is a distributable reserve. currency translation for the company's non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries with a functional currency other than u.s. dollars, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using year-end exchange rates. sales and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within equity. 90 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, which are included in net income, were immaterial in all periods presented. cumulative effect of accounting change during fiscal 2006, the company adopted fin 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143. " accordingly, the company recognized asset retirement obligations of $16 million and net property, plant, and equipment of $4 million in its combined balance sheet at fiscal year end 2006. in addition, the company recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change which resulted in an $8 million after-tax, $12 million pre-tax, loss. recently adopted accounting pronouncements in may 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 162, " the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles." sfas no. 162 codifies the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles to be used by the preparers of financial statements. the hierarchy is identical to that contained in the american institute of certified public accountants statements on auditing standards no. 69, " the meaning of present fairly in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ." adoption of the standard did not have any impact on the company's consolidated and combined financial statements. in june 2006, the fasb issued fin 48. this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin 48 requires that an enterprise must determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities, including resolution of any appeals or litigation processes, based upon the technical merits of the position. a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not threshold is then measured to determine the amount of tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. as a result of adopting fin 48, the company recorded a net increase in contingent tax liabilities of $1,197 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $648 million, and a corresponding decrease in the opening balance of accumulated earnings of $549 million. see note 19 for additional information regarding income taxes and the adoption of fin 48. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, " employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) ." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. under sfas no. 158, companies are required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company currently uses a measurement date of august 31st. sfas no. 158 also requires additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. the measurement date provisions will become effective for the company in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact of the measurement date change provisions on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. the company adopted the funded status recognition provisions at september 28, 2007. the incremental effects of adopting the standard on the consolidated balance sheet were increases of $386 million in long-term pension and postretirement benefit liabilities, $16 million in accrued and other current liabilities, and $55 million in other assets. the impact of adoption also resulted in additional net deferred tax assets of $122 million. the impact of adoption to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of equity, was a reduction of $225 million. there was no impact 91 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) on pension or other postretirement benefit expense, cash flows, or benefits plans in fiscal 2007. on-going compliance with the standard will not impact pension or other postretirement benefit expense, cash flows, or benefit plans. see note 16 for further discussion of the implementation of the recognition provisions of sfas no. 158. in september 2006, the securities and exchange commission ("sec") issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 108, " considering the effect of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. " sab no. 108 provides guidance on evaluating the materiality of prior periods' misstatements, quantifying the effects of correcting misstatements in the current period, and criteria for restatement of prior periods. sab no. 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after november 15, 2006. the company adopted this guidance effective for fiscal 2007. the adoption did not have a material impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. recently issued accounting pronouncements in october 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position ("fsp") no. fas 157-3, " determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset is not active. " fsp no. fas 157-3 clarifies the methods employed in determining the fair value for financial assets when a market for such assets is not active. fsp no. fas 157-3 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the adoption of fsp no. fas 157-3 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in june 2008, the fasb issued fsp no. emerging issues task force ("eitf") 03-6-1, "determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities." fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 concludes that unvested restricted share awards that pay nonforfeitable cash dividends are participating securities and are subject to the two-class method of computing earnings per share. fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company does not expect that adoption of fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 will have a material impact on its consolidated and combined financial statements. in april 2008, the fasb issued fsp no. fas 142-3, " determination of the useful life of intangible assets. " fsp no. fas 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under sfas no. 142, " goodwill and other intangible assets ." fsp no. fas 142-3 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that fsp no. fas 142-3 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in march 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 161, " disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities an amendment of fasb statement no. 133 ." sfas no. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of sfas no. 133, " accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, " to provide improved transparency into the uses and financial statement impact of derivative instruments and hedging activities. the company plans to adopt sfas no. 161 in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 161 will have on its consolidated and combined financial statements. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141r, " business combinations ." sfas no. 141r replaces sfas no. 141 and addresses the recognition and accounting for identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling interests in business combinations. sfas no. 141r is effective 92 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 141r will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, " noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements ." sfas no. 160 addresses the accounting and reporting framework for minority interests by a parent company. sfas no. 160 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 160 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in june 2007, the fasb eitf issued eitf issue no. 06-11, " accounting for income tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards ." eitf 06-11 requires that a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalent units paid on unvested restricted shares and restricted share units be reflected as an increase in contributed surplus and reflected as an addition to the company's excess tax benefit pool, as defined under sfas no. 123r. eitf 06-11 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the adoption of eitf 06-11 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, " the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities. " sfas no. 159 permits an entity, on a contract-by-contract basis, to make an irrevocable election to account for certain types of financial instruments and warranty and insurance contracts at fair value, rather than historical cost, with changes in the fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recognized in earnings. sfas no. 159 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the company does not expect to use the fair value election for any existing assets or liabilities as of the date of adoption. the adoption of sfas no. 159 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, " fair value measurements. " sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the adoption of sfas no. 157 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 3. separation costs in connection with the separation, the company incurred costs of $44 million in fiscal 2007, primarily related to employee costs, including non-cash compensation expense of $11 million related to the modification of share option awards at separation and $12 million related to the acceleration of restricted share award vesting as a result of separation. see note 24 for further information on the conversion of tyco international share option awards into tyco electronics share option awards. 93 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net charges (credits) to operations by segment during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 166 $ 54 $ 9 network solutions 23 35 9 undersea telecommunications 5 5 (4 ) wireless systems 3 (1 ) $ 194 $ 97 $ 13 amounts recognized in the consolidated and combined statements of operations during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) restructuring and other charges (credits), net: cash charges $ 147 $ 74 $ 9 non-cash charges (credits) 38 18 (2 ) total restructuring and other charges, net 185 92 7 cost of sales 9 5 6 $ 194 $ 97 $ 13 cash charges activity in the company's restructuring reserves during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 is summarized as follows: balance at beginning of year charges utilization changes in estimate transfers from held for sale (1) currency translation balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2008 activity: fiscal 2008 actions employee severance $ $ 125 $ (7 ) $ $ $ $ 118 facilities exit costs 1 (1 ) other 4 (2 ) 2 total 130 (10 ) 120 fiscal 2007 actions employee severance 62 (39 ) (1 ) 9 31 facilities exit costs 1 6 (6 ) 1 2 other 1 6 (5 ) 2 total 64 12 (50 ) 9 35 pre-fiscal 2006 actions facilities exit costs 64 4 (16 ) 1 3 56 total fiscal 2008 activity 128 146 (76 ) 1 12 211 94 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net (continued) balance at beginning of year charges utilization changes in estimate transfers from held for sale (1) currency translation balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2007 activity: fiscal 2007 actions employee severance 66 (3 ) (1 ) 62 facilities exit costs 1 (1 ) 1 1 other 2 (1 ) 1 total 69 (5 ) 1 (1 ) 64 fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 2 (2 ) facilities exit costs total 2 (2 ) pre-fiscal 2006 actions facilities exit costs 66 5 (16 ) 7 2 64 total fiscal 2007 activity 68 74 (23 ) 8 1 128 fiscal 2006 activity: fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 10 (8 ) 2 facilities exit costs other total 10 (8 ) 2 pre-fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 7 (5 ) (2 ) facilities exit costs 71 (13 ) 3 5 66 other 1 1 (2 ) total 79 (17 ) (1 ) 5 66 total fiscal 2006 activity $ 79 $ 10 $ (25 ) $ (1 ) $ $ 5 $ 68 (1) during fiscal 2006, the printed circuit group business was accounted for as a discontinued operation and related restructuring liabilities were reclassified accordingly. during fiscal 2007, the printed circuit group business was sold and $8 million of restructuring liabilities were retained by the company. see note 6 for additional information. fiscal 2008 actions the company initiated restructuring programs during fiscal 2008 primarily relating to the migration of product lines to low-cost countries and the exit of certain manufacturing operations in the electronic components and network solutions segments. in connection with these actions, during fiscal 2008, the company recorded restructuring charges of $130 million primarily related to employee severance and benefits. the company expects to complete all restructuring activities commenced in fiscal 2008 by the end of fiscal 2010 and to incur additional charges, primarily in the electronic components segment, of approximately $48 million relating to these initiated actions by completion. 95 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net (continued) fiscal 2007 actions fiscal 2007 actions included the migration of product lines to low-cost countries and the exit of manufacturing operations in the electronic components and network solutions segments and the rationalization of a product line in the wireless systems segment. in connection with these actions, during fiscal 2008 and 2007, the company recorded restructuring charges of $12 million and $69 million, respectively, primarily related to employee severance and benefits. the company expects to complete all restructuring activities commenced in fiscal 2007 by the end of fiscal 2009 and to incur additional charges of approximately $5 million relating to these initiated actions by completion. pre-fiscal 2006 actions during fiscal 2002, the company recorded restructuring charges of $779 million primarily related to a significant downturn in the telecommunications industry and certain other end markets. these actions have been completed. as of fiscal year end 2008, the remaining restructuring reserves related to the fiscal 2002 actions are $56 million, relating to exited lease facilities. during fiscal 2008, the company recorded restructuring charges of $4 million for interest accretion on these reserves. the company expects that its remaining reserves will continue to be paid out over the expected terms of the obligations which range from one to fifteen years. non-cash charges and credits during fiscal 2008, the company recorded non-cash charges of $38 million primarily related to fixed assets and intangibles in connection with exited manufacturing facilities and product lines. also, the company recorded non-cash charges of $9 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines in fiscal 2008. during fiscal 2007, the company recorded non-cash charges of $18 million primarily related to fixed assets in connection with exited manufacturing operations and $5 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines. during fiscal 2006, the company recorded non-cash charges of $8 million, including $6 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines. also, during fiscal 2006, the company completed exit activities related to previously acquired operations for which goodwill had been fully impaired in prior years. as these activities were completed for amounts less than originally established as acquisition liabilities, the company recorded the reversal of the acquisition liabilities as a restructuring and other credit of $4 million. total restructuring reserves the company's restructuring reserves by segment at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) electronic components $ 123 $ 29 network solutions 33 34 undersea telecommunications 54 63 wireless systems 1 2 restructuring reserves $ 211 $ 128 96 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net (continued) at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, restructuring reserves were included in the company's consolidated balance sheets as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) accrued and other current liabilities $ 131 $ 66 other liabilities 80 62 restructuring reserves $ 211 $ 128 5. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets during fiscal 2008, the company recorded impairment charges of $137 million, consisting of a goodwill impairment of $103 million and long-lived asset impairment of $34 million. the goodwill impairment, which related to the global application and tooling division reporting unit of the electronic components segment, was incurred when the reporting unit experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous expectations and lower future expectations in certain end markets. see note 10 for additional information regarding the impairment of goodwill. the long-lived asset impairment was comprised of $22 million related to the pending divestiture of the company's battery systems business and $12 million related to certain dedicated manufacturing lines serving the north american automotive market. these charges are presented in impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. in september 2008, the company's board of directors authorized management to proceed with strategic alternatives with respect to the company's battery systems business, a business of the electronic components segment. this event qualifies as a triggering event, requiring the company to assess the recoverability of the asset group. based on a negotiated sales price of $30 million, the company has determined that the carrying value of the battery systems business' assets and liabilities exceeds its fair value. consequently, a pre-tax impairment charge of $22 million has been recorded in fiscal 2008 to write the carrying value of the assets and liabilities down to the fair value. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company determined that the certain north american automotive customer-specific product lines in the electronic components segment were impaired due to declining future production expectations. the company determined that an impairment test was necessary due to changes in the north american automotive industry. these asset groups were assessed for recoverability under sfas no. 144 and impaired based on estimates of the asset group fair values. using a discounted cash flow analysis, the company determined that a pre-tax impairment charge of $12 million was required to write the carrying value down to the fair value. 6. discontinued operations during fiscal 2008, the company was authorized by its board of directors to pursue the divestiture of its radio frequency components and subsystem and automotive radar sensors businesses. in september 2008, the company completed the sale of the radio frequency components and subsystem business for net cash proceeds of $427 million and recorded a $184 million pre-tax gain on the sale. in september 2008, the company also completed the sale of the automotive radar sensors business for 97 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 6. discontinued operations (continued) net cash proceeds of $42 million and recorded a $31 million pre-tax gain on the sale. the proceeds received in both transactions are subject to final working capital adjustments. the divestiture of the company's power systems business was authorized during fiscal 2007. as a result, the company assessed power systems' assets for impairment and determined that the book value of the power systems business exceeded its estimated fair value. the company recorded a $585 million pre-tax impairment charge in fiscal 2007 in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. in fiscal 2008, the company completed the sale of its power systems business for $102 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a $51 million pre-tax gain on the sale. during fiscal 2006, the company entered into a definitive agreement to divest the printed circuit group business. in fiscal 2007, the company completed the sale of the printed circuit group business for $227 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a $45 million pre-tax gain on the sale. during fiscal 2006, the company recorded a goodwill impairment of $316 million in income (loss) from discontinued operations related to the radio frequency components and subsystem and automotive radar sensors reporting units, which were reporting units in the wireless systems segment prior to being reclassified to held for sale. the impairment charge was incurred when the reporting units experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous expectations and lower future expectations due to sales declines in certain end markets. the radio frequency components and subsystem, automotive radar sensors, power systems, and printed circuit group businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. prior to reclassification to discontinued operations, the radio frequency components and subsystem and automotive radar sensors businesses were components of the wireless systems segment. both the power systems and printed circuit group businesses were components of the other segment, which has been renamed the undersea telecommunications segment. the following table reflects net sales, pre-tax income (loss) from discontinued operations, pre-tax gain on sale of discontinued operations including impairments and costs to sell, and income taxes for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) net sales $ 603 $ 991 $ 1,429 pre-tax income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 14 $ (598 ) $ (328 ) pre-tax gain on sale of discontinued operations 266 45 income tax (expense) benefit (92 ) 177 82 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ 188 $ (376 ) $ (246 ) 98 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 6. discontinued operations (continued) the following table presents balance sheet information for discontinued operations at fiscal year end 2007; there were no such amounts at fiscal year end 2008: fiscal 2007 (in millions) accounts receivable, net $ 188 inventories 193 intangible assets, net 29 property, plant, and equipment, net 94 other assets 1 total assets $ 505 accounts payable $ 78 accrued and other current liabilities 67 other liabilities 121 total liabilities $ 266 7. acquisitions acquisitions the company acquired one business for an aggregate cost of $3 million in fiscal 2008. during fiscal 2006, the company acquired one business for an aggregate cost of $18 million and the remaining interest in a joint venture for $5 million. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash generated from operations. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. holdback and earn-out liabilities the company paid cash related to holdback and earn-out liabilities of approximately $1 million and $82 million during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to certain prior period acquisitions. the total cash paid in fiscal 2006 was reported in discontinued operations as it related to the printed circuit group business. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other pre-acquisition contingencies. additionally, certain acquisitions have provisions that would require the company to make additional contingent purchase price payments to the sellers if the acquired company achieves certain milestones subsequent to its acquisition by the company. these payments are tied to certain performance measures, such as sales, gross margin, or earnings growth and generally are treated as additional purchase price. at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, holdback and earn-out liabilities of $61 million and $59 million, respectively, were included in other liabilities on the company's consolidated balance sheets. 99 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 8. inventories at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, inventories consisted of the following: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) raw materials $ 402 $ 324 work in progress 926 856 finished goods 984 869 inventories $ 2,312 $ 2,049 9. property, plant, and equipment, net at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, net property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) land and improvements $ 252 $ 248 buildings and leasehold improvements 1,375 1,303 machinery and equipment 6,691 6,173 construction in process 492 467 gross property, plant, and equipment 8,810 8,191 accumulated depreciation (5,293 ) (4,779 ) property, plant, and equipment, net $ 3,517 $ 3,412 depreciation expense was $523 million, $480 million, and $426 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. during fiscal 2007, the company exercised its option to buy five cable-laying sea vessels that were previously leased to the company and used by the undersea telecommunications segment at a cost of $280 million, which was reflected as a capital expenditure. 100 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 10. goodwill the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for fiscal 2008 and 2007 were as follows: electronic components network solutions wireless systems total (in millions) balance at september 29, 2006 $ 5,973 $ 843 $ 319 $ 7,135 purchase accounting adjustments (1 ) 1 currency translation 36 6 42 balance at september 28, 2007 6,008 850 319 7,177 purchase accounting adjustments 3 3 currency translation (8 ) (1 ) (9 ) impairment (103 ) (103 ) balance at september 26, 2008 $ 5,900 $ 849 $ 319 $ 7,068 during fiscal 2008, the company recorded a goodwill impairment of $103 million in its electronic components segment related to the global application and tooling division reporting unit. the impairment charge was incurred when the reporting unit experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous expectations and lower future expectations in certain end markets. in performing the annual step i goodwill impairment test, the company determined the fair value of the global application and tooling division reporting unit based on a discounted cash flows analysis incorporating the company's estimate of future operating performance. the results of the step i goodwill impairment test indicated that the book value of the reporting unit exceeded the fair value of the reporting unit. the failure of the step i goodwill impairment test triggered a step ii goodwill impairment test in which the company determined the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill by comparing the reporting unit fair value determined in step i to the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets, including unrecognized intangible assets. the step ii goodwill impairment test indicated that there is no implied value related to the goodwill, resulting in an impairment of the reporting unit's entire goodwill balance of $103 million. the goodwill impairment is presented in impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. 101 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 11. intangible assets, net the company's intangible assets at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted average amortization period gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted average amortization period ($ in millions) intellectual property $ 815 $ (342 ) $ 473 24 years $ 809 $ (294 ) $ 515 24 years other 16 (3 ) 13 49 years 14 (3 ) 11 50 years total $ 831 $ (345 ) $ 486 24 years $ 823 $ (297 ) $ 526 24 years intangible asset amortization expense, which is recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses, was $36 million, $34 million, and $33 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. the estimated aggregate amortization expense on intangible assets currently owned by the company is expected to be as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 35 fiscal 2010 34 fiscal 2011 34 fiscal 2012 32 fiscal 2013 32 thereafter 319 $ 486 12. accrued and other current liabilities at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, accrued and other current liabilities consisted of the following: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) accrued payroll and employee benefits $ 416 $ 349 income taxes payable 215 245 restructuring reserves 131 66 dividends payable 74 70 deferred income taxes 28 49 other 732 638 accrued and other current liabilities $ 1,596 $ 1,417 102 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 13. debt debt at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 was as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) 6.00% senior notes due 2012 $ 800 $ 800 5.95% senior notes due 2014 300 6.55% senior notes due 2017 753 747 7.125% senior notes due 2037 498 498 unsecured senior bridge loan facility 550 unsecured senior revolving credit facility 700 commercial paper 647 other 183 83 total debt 3,181 3,378 less current portion (1) 20 5 long-term debt $ 3,161 $ 3,373 (1) the current portion of long-term debt at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 was comprised of amounts shown as other. during september 2007, tyco electronics group s.a. ("tegsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, issued $800 million principal amount of 6.00% senior notes due 2012, $750 million principal amount of 6.55% senior notes due 2017, and $500 million principal amount of 7.125% senior notes due 2037. in connection with the issuance of the senior notes, tegsa and the company entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers under which tegsa and the company agreed, for the benefit of the holders of the senior notes, to file with the sec an exchange offer registration statement within 210 days after the date of the original issue of the notes. the registration statement became effective april 15, 2008, and the exchange offer was completed on may 20, 2008, meeting the registration requirements. during july 2008, tegsa issued $300 million principal amount of 5.95% senior notes due 2014. the notes were offered and sold pursuant to an effective registration statement on form s-3 filed on july 1, 2008. interest on the notes accrues from their date of issuance at a rate of 5.95% per year and is payable semi-annually on january 15 and july 15 of each year, beginning on january 15, 2009. the notes are tegsa's unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of the existing and future senior debt and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that tegsa may incur. net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $298 million. in july 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of tegsa issued $100 million principal amount of profit sharing notes with an initial maturity date of 2010. remuneration on the notes is paid quarterly, commencing on october 15, 2008, based on the after tax profits of the tegsa subsidiary, with quarterly remuneration not to exceed 0.9615% of the outstanding principal. 103 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 13. debt (continued) as of september 28, 2007, tegsa had $550 million of indebtedness outstanding under its unsecured senior bridge loan facility, which bore interest at the rate of 5.47%. during fiscal 2008, the company paid off all balances and cancelled all commitments under the unsecured senior bridge loan facility. in april 2007, tegsa entered into a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. the commitments under the revolving credit facility total $1,500 million; however, $75 million of these commitments are from a subsidiary of lehman brothers holdings inc. due to the chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings inc. in september 2008, the company believes it is unlikely that this $75 million commitment will be honored. accordingly, the company's useable commitments under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility are likely $1,425 million. borrowings under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility bear interest, at tegsa's option, at a base rate or the london interbank offered rate ("libor") plus a margin dependent on tegsa's credit ratings and the amount drawn under the facility. tegsa is required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 4.5 to 12.5 basis points depending on its credit ratings. as of september 28, 2007, tegsa had $700 million of indebtedness outstanding under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, which bore interest at the rate of 5.38%. in july 2008, the company paid off all amounts outstanding under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility with proceeds from the issuance of the $300 million principal amount of 5.95% senior notes and $100 million principal amount of profit sharing notes, as well as cash from operations. in november 2007, tegsa commenced issuing commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers in accordance with available exemptions from the registration requirements of the securities act of 1933 (the "securities act"), as part of the company's ongoing effort to enhance financial flexibility and to potentially decrease the cost of borrowings. as of fiscal year end 2008, tegsa had $647 million of commercial paper outstanding at an average interest rate of 4.01%. borrowings under the commercial paper program are backed by the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. tegsa's payment obligations under its senior notes, five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, commercial paper, and profit sharing notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by tyco electronics ltd. the company's debt agreements contain financial and other customary covenants. as of september 26, 2008, the company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. during 2008, the company entered into interest rate swaps to effectively convert fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. as of september 26, 2008, the company had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of the 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes. the maturity date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the maturity date of the underlying debt. under these agreements, the company receives fixed rates of interest applicable to the underlying debt and pays floating rates of interest based on six month libor. these agreements do not include an exchange of the underlying debt principal amounts. the fair value of the interest rate swaps was $6 million at september 26, 2008 and was recorded in other assets with a corresponding increase in the debt obligation. the changes in fair value of both the interest rate swap agreements and the underlying debt obligation were classified as interest expense and were directly offsetting. see note 15 for additional information on interest rate swaps. 104 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 13. debt (continued) in periods prior to separation, tyco international's consolidated debt, exclusive of amounts incurred directly by the company, was proportionately allocated to the company based on the historical funding requirements of the company using historical data. net interest expense was allocated in the same proportions as debt through june 1, 2007 and includes the impact of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. for fiscal 2007 and 2006, tyco international allocated to tyco electronics interest expense of $150 million and $234 million, respectively, and interest income of $20 million and $33 million, respectively. in addition, tyco international allocated to the company loss on retirement of debt in the amount of $232 million for fiscal 2007, which is included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. the method utilized to allocate loss on retirement of debt was consistent with the allocation of debt and net interest expense as described above. management believes the allocation basis for debt, net interest expense, and loss on retirement of debt was reasonable based on the historical financing needs of the company; however, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual amounts that the company would have incurred had it been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. the fair value of the company's debt was approximately $3,115 million and $3,413 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. for further detail of methods and assumptions used in determining fair value, see note 2. the aggregate amounts of total debt maturing during the next five years and thereafter are as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 667 fiscal 2010 101 fiscal 2011 1 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 858 thereafter 1,554 total $ 3,181 the outstanding commercial paper of $647 million at september 26, 2008 is classified as long-term as borrowings under the commercial paper program are backed by the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. on the maturity schedule above, the $647 million is presented as maturing in fiscal 2009. certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have overdraft or similar types of facilities, which totaled $42 million, of which $41 million was not drawn and available at fiscal year end 2008. these facilities, most of which are renewable, expire at various dates through the year 2010 and were established primarily within the company's international operations. 14. guarantees pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, upon separation, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with tyco 105 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 14. guarantees (continued) international and covidien. under these agreements, principally the tax sharing agreement, tyco international, covidien, and tyco electronics share 27%, 42%, and 31%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of certain liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled by the companies with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. if any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, the company would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. the company's indemnification created under the tax sharing agreement qualifies as a guarantee of a third party entity's debt under fin 45, " guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others ." fin 45 addresses the measurement and disclosure of a guarantor's obligation to pay a debt incurred by a third party. to value the initial obligation under fin 45, the company considered a range of probability-weighted future cash flows that represent the likelihood of payment of each class of liability by each of the three post-separation companies. the future cash flows incorporate interest and penalties that the companies believe will be incurred on each class of liabilities and are discounted to the present value to reflect the value associated with each at separation. the fin 45 calculation includes a premium that reflects the cost for an insurance carrier to stand in and assume the payment obligation. based on the probability-weighted future cash flows related to the unresolved tax matters, the company, under the tax sharing agreement, faces a maximum potential liability of $3 billion, based on undiscounted estimates and interest and penalties used to determine the fair value of the fin 45 guarantee and an assumption of 100% default on the parts of tyco international and covidien, a likelihood that management believes to be remote. in the event that the company is required, due to bankruptcy or other business interruption on the part of tyco international or covidien, to pay more than the contractually determined 31%, the company retains the right to seek payment from the effected entity. at september 28, 2007, the probability-weighted cash flows and risk premium of certain unresolved legacy tax matters for which the company has made indemnifications to tyco international and covidien resulted in a fair value of the fin 45 liability of $296 million, which was reflected as an adjustment to contributed surplus on the consolidated balance sheets. during fiscal 2008, the company, while assessing its income tax positions under fin 48, decreased this liability by $14 million and recorded the adjustment to other income on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. also, in fiscal 2008, this liability was increased by $57 million as a result of the completion by tyco international of certain proposed tax adjustments to u.s. federal income tax returns. (see note 17 for additional information regarding the proposed tax adjustments.) as of september 26, 2008, the total liability of $339 million was recorded in income taxes on the consolidated balance sheet. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties, and/or indemnities to cover various risks including unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability for investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate 106 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 14. guarantees (continued) the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions; however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. the company generally records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty see note 2. the changes in the company's warranty liability for fiscal 2008 and 2007 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) balance at beginning of fiscal year $ 23 $ 25 warranties issued during the fiscal year 7 6 warranty expirations and changes in estimate 4 (3 ) settlements (4 ) (5 ) balance at end of fiscal year $ 30 $ 23 15. financial instruments the company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, debt, and derivative financial instruments. the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and derivative financial instruments approximated book value at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007. see note 13 for the fair value estimates of debt. to the extent that tyco international entered into hedges on behalf of the company prior to separation, the statement of operations effects of those hedges have been allocated to the company as part of the tyco international general corporate overhead expense allocation or interest expense allocation as appropriate. see note 18. the cash flows related to derivative financial instruments are reported in the operating activities section of the consolidated and combined statements of cash flow. the company's derivative financial instruments present certain market and counterparty risks; however, concentration of counterparty risk is mitigated as the company deals with a variety of major financial institutions worldwide with long-term standard &amp; poor's and moody's credit ratings of a/a2 or higher. in addition, only conventional derivative financial instruments are utilized. the company is exposed to potential losses if a counterparty fails to perform according to the terms of its agreement. with respect to counterparty net asset positions recognized at september 26, 2008, the company has assessed the likelihood of counterparty default as remote. at this time, the company is not required, nor does it require, collateral or other security to be furnished by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments. 107 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 15. financial instruments (continued) foreign exchange risks as permitted under the company's risk management program and policies, the company uses derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to foreign currency risks. as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the company utilizes foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted cash transactions. these contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in the derivatives' fair value recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, the company had net liabilities of $5 million and $8 million, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheet related to these transactions. the company centrally manages the cash of most of its subsidiaries. to convert foreign currency cash flows in a cost effective manner, the company enters into currency swaps and foreign exchange forwards. the terms of these instruments are generally less than one year. the changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are largely offsetting and are recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. interest rate risk management the company issues debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund its operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, the company has used, and may use in the future, interest rate swaps to convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of its variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). as of fiscal year end 2008, the company had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of the 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes. the maturity date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the maturity date of the underlying debt. under these agreements, the company receives fixed rates of interest applicable to the underlying debt and pays floating rates of interest based on six month libor. as of september 26, 2008, the company's interest rate swaps were in an asset position of $6 million. the changes in fair value of both the interest rate swap agreements and the underlying debt obligation were classified as interest expense and were directly offsetting. as of september 28, 2007, the company had no outstanding interest rate swaps. during fiscal 2007, in anticipation of issuing fixed rate debt, the company entered into and, concurrent with the company's fixed-rate debt issuance, terminated forward starting interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in interest expense that would result from changes in interest rates between the date of the swap and the company's anticipated date of issuing fixed-rate debt. these forward starting interest rate swaps were designated as effective hedges of the probable interest payments under sfas no. 133. upon the issuance of the company's senior notes in september 2007, these swaps were terminated for a cash payment of $54 million. the effective portion of these swaps of $53 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and is recognized in earnings as interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt instruments. the ineffective portion of $1 million was 108 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 15. financial instruments (continued) recorded as interest expense in the consolidated and combined financial statements in fiscal 2007. in fiscal 2008, the company recognized $6 million of interest expense relating to the swaps in the consolidated and combined statement of operations. hedge of net investment the company hedges its net investments in certain foreign operations using intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in the same currencies. the aggregate notional value of these hedges was $1,161 million and $3,675 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. as a result of the hedges of net investment, the company reclassified a foreign exchange loss of $168 million and $118 million, respectively, in fiscal 2008 and 2007. these amounts were recorded as currency translation, a component of other comprehensive income, offsetting foreign exchange gains or losses attributable to the translation of the net investments. (see additional information in note 23.) the company did not hedge net investments in foreign operations during fiscal 2006. commodity hedges as part of managing the exposure to certain commodity price fluctuations, the company utilizes forward contracts. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in prices of commodities used in production. the company accounts for the contracts on its consolidated balance sheets at fair value. the effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as, and meets the required criteria for, a cash flow hedge is recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the underlying hedged item affects earnings. ineffective portions of a cash flow hedge are recognized currently in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. at september 26, 2008, the company's commodity hedges, all of which related to gold and had maturities of less than one year, had a notional value of $21 million and were in a gain position of $2 million. the hedges were effective as of september 26, 2008, resulting in a reclassification of the $2 million gain to other comprehensive income. no amounts were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2008. the company expects that significantly all of the balance in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the commodities hedges will be reclassified into the consolidated and combined statements of operations during fiscal 2009 as adjustments to cost of sales. the company did not engage in commodities hedges during fiscal 2007 or 2006. 109 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans adoption of sfas no. 158 the company adopted the funded status recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 effective september 28, 2007. the impact of the adoption of sfas no. 158 on the consolidated balance sheet at september 28, 2007 was as follows: prior to sfas no. 158 adoption impact of sfas no. 158 adoption after sfas no. 158 adoption (in millions) assets: current deferred income tax assets $ 320 $ 5 $ 325 other assets 281 55 336 non-current deferred income tax assets 1,274 123 1,397 total assets $ 23,505 $ 183 $ 23,688 liabilities and shareholders' equity: accrued and other current liabilities $ 1,401 $ 16 $ 1,417 non-current deferred tax liabilities 265 6 271 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 221 386 607 accumulated other comprehensive income 1,277 (225 ) 1,052 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 23,505 $ 183 $ 23,688 defined benefit pension plans prior to separation, the company participated through its former parent, tyco international, in a number of contributory and noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans. subsequent to separation, the company assumed sponsorship of those plans, covering certain of its u.s. and non-u.s. employees, designed in accordance with local custom and practice. net periodic pension benefit cost is based on the utilization of the projected unit credit method of calculation and is charged to the consolidated and combined statements of operations on a systematic basis over the expected average remaining service lives of current participants. contribution amounts are actuarially determined. the benefits under the defined benefit plans are based on various factors, such as years of service and compensation. prior to separation, the company participated through its former parent in one co-mingled plan that included plan participants of other tyco international subsidiaries. the company recorded its portion of the co-mingled plan's expense and the related obligation, which has been actuarially determined based on the company's specific benefit formulas by participants and allocated plan assets. the contribution amounts were determined in total for the co-mingled plan and allocated to the company based on headcount. management believes such allocations were reasonable. in fiscal 2007, this plan was legally separated, resulting in a reallocation of assets based on the employee retirement income security act ("erisa") prescribed calculation. the company's measurement date is august 31 for each year presented. 110 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) the net periodic benefit cost (credit) for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 ($ in millions) service cost $ 5 $ 5 $ 4 $ 73 $ 60 $ 62 interest cost 56 55 50 83 70 60 expected return on plan assets (75 ) (74 ) (72 ) (73 ) (60 ) (51 ) amortization of prior service credit (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) amortization of net actuarial loss 7 13 15 8 20 24 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits 1 (10 ) (3 ) (1 ) net periodic benefit cost (credit) $ (6 ) $ (11 ) $ (3 ) $ 86 $ 87 $ 93 weighted-average assumptions used to determine net pension cost (credit) during the period: discount rate 6.35 % 6.00 % 5.25 % 4.70 % 4.15 % 3.85 % expected return on plan assets 7.99 % 7.99 % 7.99 % 5.98 % 5.73 % 5.76 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 3.45 % 3.19 % 3.06 % the following table represents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, and the net amount recognized on the consolidated balance sheets for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 ($ in millions) change in benefit obligations: benefit obligation at end of prior period $ 918 $ 947 $ 1,758 $ 1,662 service cost 5 5 73 60 interest cost 56 55 83 70 employee contributions 7 6 plan amendments 2 3 actuarial gain (58 ) (34 ) (51 ) (126 ) benefits and administrative expenses paid (63 ) (51 ) (68 ) (60 ) (divestitures) new plans (4 ) 4 31 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (9 ) (6 ) currency translation (14 ) 118 benefit obligation at end of period $ 858 $ 918 $ 1,785 $ 1,758 111 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 ($ in millions) change in plan assets: fair value of plan assets at end of prior period $ 964 $ 951 $ 1,194 $ 1,002 actual return on plan assets (59 ) 114 (80 ) 94 employer contributions 1 1 76 68 employee contributions 7 6 (divestitures) new plans (51 ) 16 benefits and administrative expenses paid (63 ) (51 ) (68 ) (60 ) settlement gain and special termination benefits (7 ) (6 ) currency translation (23 ) 74 fair value of plan assets at end of period $ 843 $ 964 $ 1,099 $ 1,194 funded status $ (15 ) $ 46 $ (686 ) $ (564 ) contributions after the measurement date 8 11 net amount recognized $ (15 ) $ 46 $ (678 ) $ (553 ) amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheets: other assets $ 2 $ 63 $ 8 $ 14 accrued and other current liabilities (4 ) (3 ) (10 ) (8 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities (13 ) (14 ) (676 ) (559 ) net amount recognized $ (15 ) $ 46 $ (678 ) $ (553 ) weighted-average assumptions used to determine pension benefit obligations at period end: discount rate 7.05 % 6.35 % 5.11 % 4.70 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 3.63 % 3.45 % the pre-tax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2008 and 2007 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) change in net loss: unrecognized net loss at end of prior period $ 170 $ 200 $ 240 $ 400 current year changes recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 75 (27 ) 98 (142 ) amortization reclassified to earnings (7 ) (13 ) (8 ) (20 ) curtailment/settlement reclassified to earnings 10 3 2 other (7 ) unrecognized net loss at end of period $ 238 $ 170 $ 326 $ 240 change in prior service credits: unrecognized prior service credit at end of prior period $ $ $ (18 ) $ (21 ) amortization reclassified to earnings 2 2 other 3 1 unrecognized prior service credit at end of period $ $ $ (13 ) $ (18 ) 112 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) the estimated amortization from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in fiscal 2009 is as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans (in millions) amortization of net actuarial loss $ (15 ) $ (14 ) amortization of prior service credit 1 $ (15 ) $ (13 ) in determining the expected return on plan assets, the company considers the relative weighting of plan assets by class and individual asset class performance expectations as provided by their external advisors. the investment strategy for the u.s. pension plans has been governed by the company's investment committee; investment strategies for non-u.s. pension plans are governed locally. the company's investment strategy for its pension plans is to manage the plans on a going concern basis. current investment policy is to achieve a reasonable return on assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for participants. projected returns are based primarily on pro forma asset allocation and expected long-term returns and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and investment management. during the year, the company's investment committee made the decision to change the target asset allocation of the u.s. plans' master trust from 60% equity and 40% fixed income to 30% equity and 70% fixed income in an effort to better align asset risk with the anticipated payment of benefit obligations. the target asset allocation transition began in fiscal 2008 and is expected to be completed in fiscal 2010. subsequent to fiscal year end 2008, conditions in the worldwide debt and equity markets have deteriorated significantly. these conditions have had a negative effect on the fair value of the plan's investments since september 26, 2008. target weighted-average asset allocations and weighted-average asset allocations for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans target fiscal 2008 fiscal 2007 target fiscal 2008 fiscal 2007 asset category: equity securities 30 % 54 % 59 % 47 % 45 % 52 % debt securities 70 44 39 41 45 39 real estate 3 3 3 cash and cash equivalents 2 2 9 7 6 total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % tyco electronics' common shares are not a direct investment of the company's pension funds; however, the pension funds may indirectly include tyco electronics shares. the aggregate amount of the tyco electronics common shares would not be considered material relative to the total pension fund assets. 113 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) the company's funding policy is to make contributions in accordance with the laws and customs of the various countries in which it operates as well as to make discretionary voluntary contributions from time-to-time. the company anticipates that, at a minimum, it will make the minimum required contributions to its pension plans in fiscal 2009 of $4 million for u.s. plans and $77 million for non-u.s. plans. benefit payments, which reflect future expected service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 58 $ 61 fiscal 2010 57 62 fiscal 2011 58 69 fiscal 2012 60 73 fiscal 2013 61 83 fiscal 2014-2018 338 453 the accumulated benefit obligation for all u.s. and non-u.s. plans as of fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) accumulated benefit obligation $ 855 $ 915 $ 1,518 $ 1,503 the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) accumulated benefit obligation $ 808 $ 19 $ 1,314 $ 754 fair value of plan assets 793 4 862 386 the projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) projected benefit obligation $ 810 $ 22 $ 1,726 $ 1,667 fair value of plan assets 793 4 1,032 1,088 114 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) defined contribution retirement plans the company maintains several defined contribution retirement plans, which include 401(k) matching programs, as well as qualified and nonqualified profit sharing and share bonus retirement plans. expense for the defined contribution plans is computed as a percentage of participants' compensation and was $77 million, $72 million, and $69 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. deferred compensation plans the company maintains nonqualified deferred compensation plans, which permit eligible employees to defer a portion of their compensation. a record keeping account is set up for each participant and the participant chooses from a variety of measurement funds for the deemed investment of their accounts. the measurement funds correspond to a number of funds in tyco electronics' 401(k) plans and the account balance fluctuates with the investment returns on those funds. total deferred compensation liabilities were $38 million and $37 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. rabbi trusts the company has established rabbi trusts, related to certain acquired companies, through which the assets may be used to pay non-qualified plan benefits. the trusts primarily hold bonds. the rabbi trust assets are subject to the claims of the company's creditors in the event of the company's insolvency. the value of the assets held by these trusts, included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, was $84 million and $89 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. total liabilities related to the assets held by the rabbi trust and reflected on the consolidated balance sheet were $17 million and $25 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. plan participants are general creditors of the company with respect to these benefits. postretirement benefit plans in addition to providing pension and 401(k) benefits, the company also provides certain health care coverage continuation for qualifying retirees from date of retirement to age 65. 115 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) net periodic postretirement benefit cost in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in millions) service cost $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 interest cost 2 3 2 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (3 ) net periodic postretirement benefit cost $ 3 $ 1 $ 3 weighted-average assumptions used to determine net postretirement benefit cost during the period: discount rate 6.35 % 5.75 % 4.75 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % the components of the accrued postretirement benefit obligations, substantially all of which are unfunded, at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 ($ in millions) change in benefit obligations: benefit obligation at beginning of period $ 41 $ 49 service cost 1 1 interest cost 2 3 actuarial gain (3 ) (7 ) benefits paid (3 ) (5 ) benefit obligation at end of period $ 38 $ 41 change in plan assets: fair value of assets at beginning of period $ 4 $ 4 employer contributions 3 5 benefits paid (3 ) (5 ) fair value of plan assets at end of period $ 4 $ 4 funded status / net amount recognized $ (34 ) $ (37 ) amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheets: accrued and other postretirement liabilities $ (2 ) $ (3 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities (32 ) (34 ) net amount recognized $ (34 ) $ (37 ) weighted-average assumptions used to determine postretirement benefit obligations at period end: discount rate 7.05 % 6.35 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % unrecognized prior service costs of $2 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. there were no changes in the balances during either period. 116 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) there is expected to be no significant amortization of the current balance into net periodic benefit cost in fiscal 2009. the company expects to make contributions to its postretirement benefit plans of $2 million in fiscal 2009. benefit payments, including those amounts to be paid out of corporate assets and reflecting future expected service as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 3 fiscal 2010 3 fiscal 2011 3 fiscal 2012 3 fiscal 2013 3 fiscal 2014-2018 15 health care cost trend assumptions are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 health care cost trend rate assumed for next fiscal year 9.21 % 10.18 % rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.00 % 5.00 % fiscal year the ultimate trend rate is achieved 2014 2013 a one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: one percentage point increase one percentage point decrease (in millions) effect on total of service and interest cost $ $ effect on postretirement benefit obligation 3 (2 ) 17. commitments and contingencies general matters the company has facility, land, vehicle, and equipment leases that expire at various dates through the year 2056. rental expense under these leases was $182 million, $165 million, and $158 million for 117 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. at fiscal year end 2008, the minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable lease obligations were as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 118 fiscal 2010 88 fiscal 2011 67 fiscal 2012 46 fiscal 2013 37 thereafter 127 total $ 483 the company also has purchase obligations related to commitments to purchase certain goods and services. at fiscal year end 2008, the company had commitments to spend $128 million in fiscal 2009. at fiscal year end 2008, the company had a contingent purchase price commitment of $80 million related to the fiscal 2001 acquisition of com-net by the wireless systems segment. this represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of com-net only after the construction and installation of a communications system for the state of florida is finished and the state has approved the system based on the guidelines set forth in the contract. a liability for this contingency has not been recorded in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements as the amount of this contingency is not currently estimable. environmental matters the company is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. as of fiscal year end 2008, the company concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $13 million to $25 million. as of fiscal year end 2008, the company concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $16 million, of which $4 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $12 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters of $16 million, the company believes that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. tyco electronics legal proceedings intellectual property and antitrust litigation the company is a party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions that may require the company to pay damage awards. the company has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. other matters the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions, and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of 118 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. legal matters under separation and distribution agreement the separation and distribution agreement provided for the allocation among the company, tyco international, and covidien of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the company's and covidien's separations from tyco international on june 29, 2007. under the separation and distribution agreement, the company assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters at separation related to the company's business or assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify the other parties for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. tyco electronics will be responsible for 31% of certain potential liabilities that may arise from litigation pending or threatened at separation that was not allocated to one of the three parties, and tyco international and covidien are responsible for 27% and 42%, respectively, of such liabilities. if any party defaults in payment of its allocated share of any such liability, each non-defaulting party will be responsible for an equal portion of the amount in default together with any other non-defaulting party, although any such payments will not release the obligation of the defaulting party. subject to the terms and conditions of the separation and distribution agreement, tyco international manages and controls all the legal matters related to the shared contingent liabilities, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. all costs and expenses that tyco international incurs in connection with the defense of such litigation, other than the amount of any judgment or settlement, which will be allocated in the manner described above, will be borne equally by tyco international, covidien, and the company. tyco international legal proceedings securities class actions and settlement as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, prior to the announcement by tyco international of the planned separation of tyco electronics and covidien in january 2006, tyco international and certain of its former directors and officers were named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action lawsuits. as a part of the separation and distribution agreement, any existing or potential liabilities related to the securities class actions were allocated among tyco international, covidien, and the company. the company is responsible for 31% of potential liabilities that may arise upon the resolution of the remaining pending litigation. most of the securities class actions were transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire for coordinated or consolidated pre-trial proceedings. a consolidated securities class action complaint was filed in these proceedings and on june 12, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all persons and entities who purchased or otherwise acquired tyco securities between december 13, 1999 and june 7, 2002, and who were damaged thereby, excluding defendants, all of the officers, directors and partners thereof, members of their immediate families and their legal representatives, heirs, successors or assigns, and any entity in which any of the foregoing have or had a controlling interest." as previously reported, tyco international settled 32 of the purported securities class action lawsuits arising from the actions alleged to have been taken by its prior management, for which the company was responsible for 31%. all legal contingencies that could have affected the final order entered in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire approving the settlement expired on february 21, 2008. as of the opt-out deadline for the 119 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) settlement, tyco international received opt-out notices from individuals and entities totaling approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members. a number of these individuals and entities have filed actions separately against tyco international and/or tyco international, covidien, and the company. it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome or to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of the asserted or unasserted claims from individuals that have opted out. several securities cases remain outstanding, including several cases asserting claims arising under erisa. if the unresolved securities proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco international, the company's share of any additional potential losses under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in fiscal 2007, the company was allocated a charge from tyco international of $922 million for the class action settlement, for which no tax benefit was available. in addition, in fiscal 2007, the company was allocated $35 million of income relating to tyco international's expected recovery of certain costs from insurers. the net charge of $887 million was recorded on the consolidated and combined statement of operations as litigation settlement, net. the portion allocated to the company was consistent with the sharing percentage included in the separation and distribution agreement. tyco international placed funds in escrow for the benefit of the class. the escrow account earned interest that was payable to the class. in addition, interest was accrued on the class action settlement liability. at fiscal year end 2007, the company reflected $928 million on the consolidated balance sheet for its portion of the escrow. in addition, the company reflected a $2,992 million liability and a $2,064 million receivable from tyco international and covidien for their portion of the liability on the consolidated balance sheet at fiscal year end 2007. the finalization of the settlement in february 2008 resulted in the extinguishment of the company's class action settlement liability of $3,020 million, interest in the escrow of $936 million, and class action settlement receivable of $2,084 million from the consolidated balance sheet in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. the finalization of the class action settlement resulted in a decrease to cash flows from operating activities and an increase to cash flows from investing activities during fiscal 2008. it did not affect the cash balance on the consolidated balance sheet because the company had previously fully funded its portion of the class action settlement into an escrow account intended to be used to settle the liability, as mentioned above. settlement of securities proceedings not covered by the class action settlement as previously reported, on april 29, 2008, tyco international signed a definitive agreement with the state of new jersey, on behalf of several of the state's pension funds, to settle the action captioned new jersey v. tyco international ltd., et al. , brought by the state in 2002 in the united states district court for the district of new jersey against tyco international, its former auditors, and certain of its former officers and directors, alleging that the defendants had, among other things, violated federal and state securities and other laws through the unauthorized and improper actions of tyco international's former management. the agreement with the state of new jersey provided for tyco international to make a payment of $73 million to the plaintiffs in exchange for the plaintiffs' agreement to dismiss the case and release all claims asserted or which might have been asserted therein, which payment was made on june 2, 2008. in fiscal 2008, the company recorded a charge of $23 million, for which no tax 120 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) benefit was available. the charge represented the company's share of the settlement costs in accordance with the sharing percentages included in the separation and distribution agreement. on june 2, 2008, tyco international entered into an agreement in principle with the trustee of various trusts that brought claims against tyco international in the previously disclosed action captioned ballard v. tyco international ltd., et al ., in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire, alleging, among other things, securities fraud in connection with tyco international's acquisition in 1999 of amp incorporated. a definitive settlement agreement and release was executed on june 10, 2008. the settlement agreement and release set forth the terms pursuant to which the parties settled all claims between them that were raised or could have been raised in the litigation. the settlement agreement and release provided that tyco international make a payment of $36 million to the plaintiffs, which payment was subject to the sharing formula contained in the separation and distribution agreement. pursuant to the sharing formula, the company's net liability was approximately $11 million, with tyco international and covidien responsible for approximately $10 million and $15 million, respectively. investigations as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, tyco international and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec's division of enforcement, the u.s. department of labor, the general services administration, and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into tyco international's governance, management, operations, accounting, and related controls prior to the separation. the department of labor is investigating tyco international and the administrators of certain of its benefit plans. tyco international has advised the company that it cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can it predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that tyco international will be required to pay material fines or suffer other penalties, and pursuant to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, a portion of such payments may be allocated to the company. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. as a result, the company's share of such potential losses also is not estimable and may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. compliance matters as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, tyco international received and has responded to various allegations that certain improper payments were made by tyco international subsidiaries, including tyco electronics subsidiaries, in recent years prior to the separation. tyco international reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations, including that it retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls, and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. to date, the company's baseline review has revealed that some of the company's former business practices may not comply with fcpa requirements. at this time, the company cannot predict the outcome of these matters and other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of these matters. however, it is possible that the 121 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) company may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties, or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. any judgment, settlement, or other cost incurred by tyco international in connection with these matters not specifically allocated to tyco international, covidien, or the company would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement. income taxes in connection with the separation, the company entered into a tax sharing agreement that generally governs covidien's, tyco electronics', and tyco international's respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the distribution of all of the shares of covidien or tyco electronics to qualify as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of section 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code") or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs to qualify for tax-favored treatment under the code. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, upon separation, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with tyco international and covidien. under these agreements, principally the tax sharing agreement, tyco international, covidien, and tyco electronics share 27%, 42%, and 31%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of certain liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled by the companies with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. if any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, the company would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. prior to separation, certain of the company's subsidiaries filed combined tax returns with tyco international. those and other of the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. tyco international, as the u.s. income tax audit controlling party under the tax sharing agreement, is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed under the provisions of fin 48, which relate specifically to tyco electronics entities have been recorded in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements. in addition, the company may be required to fund portions of covidien and tyco international's tax obligations. estimates about these guarantees have also been recognized in the consolidated and combined financial statements. see note 14 for additional information. in prior years, in connection with the irs audit of various fiscal years, tyco international submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments for fiscal years 1997 through 2000 for which the irs had completed its field work. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that acceptance 122 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) of adjustments presented for additional periods through fiscal 2005 is probable and, accordingly, has recorded them, as well as the impacts of the adjustments accepted by the irs, in the consolidated and combined financial statements. during fiscal 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco international's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agent reports which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. tyco international has agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact of $458 million which was paid by tyco international during fiscal 2007. the company's portion of this payment reduced income taxes on the consolidated balance sheet by $163 million. it is the company's understanding that tyco international has appealed other proposed adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion and is vigorously defending its prior filed tax return positions. additionally, the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against tyco international arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with certain intercompany transfers of stock in 1998 and 1999. any penalty imposed would be subject to sharing with tyco international and covidien under the tax sharing agreement. it is the company's understanding that tyco international is vigorously opposing the assertion of any such penalties. the company continues to believe that the amounts recorded in its consolidated and combined financial statements relating to these matters are appropriate. however, the ultimate resolution is uncertain and, should tyco international lose its appeal, it could result in a material impact to the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. tyco international continues to complete proposed adjustments to the remainder of its u.s. federal income tax returns. in fiscal 2008, certain proposed adjustments to u.s. federal income tax returns were completed by tyco international and presented to the irs. as a result, in fiscal 2008, the company recorded a $225 million decrease in income tax liabilities, a $42 million decrease in deferred tax assets, a $140 million decrease in the receivable from tyco international and covidien recorded in connection with the tax sharing agreement, a $57 million increase in the indemnification liability to tyco international and covidien, and a $14 million charge to contributed surplus. see note 14 for additional information regarding the indemnification liability to tyco international and covidien. in addition, in fiscal 2008, tyco international, covidien, and the company completed and filed certain fiscal 2007 u.s. consolidated federal and state income tax returns which included a combination of tyco international, covidien, and the company's subsidiaries. as a result, the company recorded a $66 million decrease in income tax liabilities with a corresponding offset to the income tax receivable, a $44 million decrease in the receivable from tyco international and covidien and a $42 million decrease in the payable to tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, a $30 million increase in contributed surplus, and a $32 million net adjustment to other related tax accounts. as the company's tax return positions continue to be updated, additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated and combined financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. additionally, adjustments may be recorded to shareholders' equity in the future for the impact of filing final or amended income tax returns in certain jurisdictions where those returns include a combination of tyco international, covidien, and/or the company's subsidiaries for the periods prior to the separation. 123 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 18. related party transactions trade activity prior to separation, the company sold certain of its manufactured products consisting primarily of connectors and cable assemblies to tyco international and its affiliates, at prices which approximated fair value. sales to tyco international and its affiliates, which are included in net sales on the consolidated and combined statements of operations, were $60 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2007 and $76 million in fiscal 2006. debt and related items the company was allocated a portion of tyco international's consolidated debt, net interest expense, and loss on retirement of debt. see note 13 for further information regarding these allocations. allocated expenses in fiscal 2007, the company was allocated a net charge from tyco international of $887 million related to the class action settlement. see note 17 for further information regarding the class action settlement. prior to separation, the company was allocated general corporate overhead expenses from tyco international for corporate-related functions based on a pro-rata percentage of tyco international's consolidated net revenue. general corporate overhead expenses primarily related to centralized corporate functions, including treasury, tax, legal, internal audit, human resources, and risk management functions. during fiscal 2007 and 2006, the company was allocated $152 million and $177 million, respectively, of general corporate overhead expenses incurred by tyco international, which are included within selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. as discussed in note 1, the company believes the assumptions and methodologies underlying the allocation of general corporate overhead expenses and net class action settlement costs from tyco international were reasonable. however, such expenses may not be indicative of the actual level of expenses that would have been incurred by the company had it been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented. transactions with tyco electronics' and tyco international's directors during fiscal 2008 and 2007, the company engaged in commercial transactions in the normal course of business with companies where tyco electronics' directors were employed and served as officers. purchases from such companies aggregated less than one percent of net sales in fiscal 2008 and 2007. in addition, during periods prior to the separation in fiscal 2007 and 2006, the company engaged in commercial transactions in the normal course of business with companies where tyco international's directors were employed and served as officers. during each of these periods, tyco electronics' purchases from such companies aggregated less than one percent of net sales. separation and distribution agreement upon separation, the company entered into a separation and distribution agreement and other agreements with tyco international and covidien to effect the separation and provide a framework for 124 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 18. related party transactions (continued) the company's relationships with tyco international and covidien after the distribution of the company's and covidien's shares to tyco international's shareholders. these agreements govern the relationships among tyco international, covidien, and the company subsequent to the separation and provide for the allocation to the company and covidien of certain of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, the company, covidien, and tyco international assumed 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation or the distribution brought by any third party. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, tyco electronics may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. tax sharing agreement upon separation, the company entered into a tax sharing agreement, under which the company shares responsibility for certain of its, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the company, covidien, and tyco international share 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to its, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of certain liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled by the companies relating to unresolved legacy tax matters. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. the company will be responsible for all of its own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien will be responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all of the tax liabilities of tyco international that were associated with tyco international subsidiaries that are included in tyco electronics following the separation became tyco electronics' tax liabilities upon separation. although tyco electronics has agreed to share certain tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, tyco electronics remains primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement, tyco electronics would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in 125 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 18. related party transactions (continued) addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, the company could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, the company may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed upon share of its, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. 19. income taxes significant components of the income tax provision for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) current: united states: federal $ 132 $ 45 $ (181 ) state (21 ) 2 (25 ) non-u.s. 273 281 301 current income tax provision 384 328 95 deferred: united states: federal 126 168 75 state 33 (7 ) (31 ) non-u.s. 15 2 (58 ) deferred income tax provision 174 163 (14 ) $ 558 $ 491 $ 81 the u.s. and non-u.s. components of income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest for 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) u.s. $ 334 $ 326 $ 302 non-u.s. 1,823 (7 ) 1,232 income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $ 2,157 $ 319 $ 1,534 126 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) the reconciliation between u.s. federal income taxes at the statutory rate and the company's provision for income taxes on continuing operations for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) notional u.s. federal income tax expense at the statutory rate $ 755 $ 112 $ 537 adjustments to reconcile to the income tax provision: u.s. state income tax provision (benefit), net 1 (3 ) (36 ) other income tax sharing agreement (198 ) (5 ) class action settlement 8 312 divestitures and impairments 21 proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns (13 ) 9 tax law changes 5 (11 ) tax credits (7 ) (8 ) (12 ) non-u.s. net earnings (1) (135 ) (96 ) (122 ) nondeductible charges 11 6 32 change in accrued income tax liabilities 100 53 21 allocated loss (gain) on retirement of debt 81 (87 ) valuation allowance 23 26 (268 ) adjustment to tax account balances (33 ) other 20 15 16 provision for income taxes $ 558 $ 491 $ 81 (1) excludes asset impairments, nondeductible charges, and other items which are broken out separately in the table. the provision for fiscal 2008 includes a benefit of $198 million primarily related to the pre-tax income of $545 million recognized in connection with our adoption of fin 48, for which no tax was provided. the provision was also impacted by increased accruals in fiscal 2008 of interest related to uncertain tax positions partially offset by a $42 million benefit associated with a favorable settlement with a taxing authority for certain legacy tax issues. in addition, the provision for fiscal 2008 reflects the benefits of increased profitability in operations in lower tax rate jurisdictions, a $33 million benefit related to adjustments to tax account balances, a $25 million increase in the valuation allowance related to restructuring charges, and a $22 million tax detriment recorded in connection with the goodwill impairment charge for which a tax benefit was not fully realized. during fiscal 2008, the company, in connection with the implementation of certain new control processes, completed the analysis and reconciliation of its tax accounts. as a result of this analysis, the company adjusted its tax account balances and recorded a $34 million reduction in income tax liabilities, a $1 million increase in deferred tax liabilities, and a $33 million benefit in the income tax provision. in fiscal 2007, no tax benefits were recorded related to the pre-tax charges for the class action settlement and loss on retirement of debt. the net increase of $26 million of deferred tax asset 127 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) valuation allowances in fiscal 2007 reflects the tax impacts of increased borrowings as a result of the class action settlement and the company's separation from tyco international. the net decrease of $268 million of deferred tax asset valuation allowances in fiscal 2006 is primarily driven by improved profitability in certain jurisdictions, principally the u.s. the company's u.s. results of operations in fiscal 2006 combined with other available evidence, including projections of future taxable income, indicated that it is more likely than not the company will realize additional deferred tax assets in the future, and accordingly, the related valuation allowances were reduced. reflected in the state tax provision line for fiscal 2006 is a $39 million state tax benefit primarily related to the tyco global network divestiture. the allocated loss on retirement of debt in fiscal 2006 is a cumulative one-time benefit of $87 million associated with the receipt of a favorable non-u.s. tax ruling permitting the deduction of historical debt retirement costs. this benefit is partially offset by an increased valuation allowance of $62 million relating to the deferred tax asset associated with net operating losses created by the debt retirement deductions. this $62 million is reflected on the valuation allowance line in the table above. deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and tax purposes. the components of the net deferred income tax asset at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) deferred tax assets: accrued liabilities and reserves $ 273 $ 253 tax loss and credit carryforwards 2,512 2,135 inventories 46 60 pension and postretirement benefits 175 143 deferred revenue 43 26 interest 227 54 unrecognized tax benefits 392 other 23 89 3,691 2,760 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets (875 ) (388 ) property, plant, and equipment (94 ) (148 ) other (47 ) (119 ) (1,016 ) (655 ) net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance 2,675 2,105 valuation allowance (873 ) (703 ) net deferred tax asset $ 1,802 $ 1,402 at fiscal year end 2008, the company had approximately $1,524 million of u.s. federal and $187 million of u.s state net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) which will expire in future 128 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) years through 2028. in addition, at fiscal year end 2008, the company had approximately $114 million of u.s. federal tax credit carryforwards, of which $15 million have no expiration and $99 million will expire in future years through 2028, and $42 million of u.s. state tax credits carryforwards which will expire in future years through 2023. the company also had $5 million of u.s. federal contribution carryforwards (tax effected) expiring through 2012 and $87 million of u.s. federal capital loss carryforwards (tax effected) expiring through 2013 at fiscal year end 2008. at fiscal year end 2008, the company had approximately $531 million of net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) in certain non-u.s. jurisdictions, of which $140 million have no expiration and $391 million will expire in future years through 2022. also, at fiscal year end 2008, there were $3 million of non-u.s. tax credit carryforwards which will expire in future years through 2013 and $19 million of non-u.s. capital loss carryforwards (tax effected) with no expiration. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $873 million and $703 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss, capital loss, and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. the company believes that it will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on its consolidated balance sheet. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109 which requires that a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. at fiscal year end 2008, approximately $41 million of the valuation allowance relates to share-based compensation and will be recorded to equity if certain net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards are utilized. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various regulatory tax authorities. see "income taxes" in note 17 for further information. the calculation of the company's tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where the company conducts its operations. under the provisions of fin 48, the company recognizes liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards as such tax loss carryforwards will be applied against these tax liabilities and will reduce the amount of cash tax payments due upon the eventual settlement with the tax authorities. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from the company's current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by certain taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. if the company's current estimate of tax and interest liabilities is less than the ultimate settlement, an additional charge to expense may result. if the company's current estimate of tax and interest liabilities is more than the ultimate settlement, income tax benefits may be recognized. substantially all of these tax liabilities and related interest are recorded in income taxes on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. the company has provided income taxes for earnings that are currently distributed as well as the taxes associated with several subsidiaries' earnings that are expected to be distributed in fiscal year 2009. no additional provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to 129 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) basis differences in investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of the distribution of such earnings. as of september 26, 2008, certain subsidiaries had approximately $10 billion of undistributed earnings that the company intends to permanently reinvest. a liability could arise if the company's intention to permanently reinvest such earnings were to change and amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. fin 48 effective september 29, 2007, the beginning of fiscal 2008, the company adopted fin 48. as discussed above, during fiscal 2008, the company, in connection with the implementation of certain new control processes, completed the analysis and reconciliation of its tax accounts. as a result of this analysis, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company adjusted certain amounts recorded in connection with the initial adoption of fin 48. these adjustments included an $85 million reduction in contingent tax liabilities, a $1 million increase in deferred tax assets, and an $86 million increase in the opening balance of accumulated earnings. overall, the company recorded a net increase in contingent tax liabilities of $1,197 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $648 million, and a corresponding decrease in the opening balance of accumulated earnings of $549 million in connection with the initial adoption of fin 48 as well as the subsequent adjustment of certain amounts. furthermore, pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, certain contingent tax liabilities related to unresolved tax matters are subject to sharing between tyco international, covidien, and the company. see note 17 for additional information regarding responsibilities for unresolved legacy tax matters. tyco international and covidien would be contractually obligated for $531 million of the company's net increase in contingent tax liabilities recorded in connection with its adoption of fin 48, of which $558 million was recorded in connection with the initial adoption of fin 48 during the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and $27 million was recorded as an adjustment to this amount during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. accordingly, the company recorded this amount in 2008 as other income and recorded the related increase in the receivable from tyco international and covidien for shared contingent tax liabilities. in addition, in connection with the adoption of fin 48, the company reassessed and decreased its fin 45 liability to tyco international and covidien and recorded $14 million of other income. see note 14 for additional information regarding the company's indemnifications under the tax sharing agreement. these adjustments are summarized in the following table: adoption of fin 48 and related tax sharing agreement income: adjustment to opening balance of accumulated earnings tax sharing income (in millions) contingent tax liabilities $ (1,197 ) $ 531 deferred tax assets 648 fin 45 14 $ (549 ) $ 545 130 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) as of september 29, 2007, the company had total unrecognized tax benefits of $2,029 million. if recognized in future periods, $1,864 million of these currently unrecognized tax benefits would impact the income tax provision and effective tax rate. of the remaining currently unrecognized tax benefits, $56 million is associated with discontinued operations. the following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits: (in millions) balance as of september 29, 2007 $ 1,906 adjustments to balance as of september 29, 2007 123 additions related to prior periods tax positions 259 reductions related to prior periods tax positions (312 ) additions related to current period tax positions 42 settlements (1 ) reductions due to lapse of applicable statute of limitations (8 ) balance at september 26, 2008 $ 2,009 as of september 26, 2008, the company had total unrecognized tax benefits of $2,009 million. if recognized in future periods, $1,775 million of these currently unrecognized tax benefits would impact the income tax provision and effective tax rate. of the remaining currently unrecognized tax benefits, $55 million is associated with discontinued operations. the company records accrued interest as well as penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes. as of september 29, 2007, the company had recorded $1,092 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions on the consolidated balance sheet. during fiscal 2008, the company recognized $115 million of interest and penalties on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. as of september 26, 2008, the balance of accrued interest and penalties is $1,106 million, which is recorded in income taxes in the consolidated balance sheet. in fiscal 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco international's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000. tyco international is in the process of appealing certain tax adjustments proposed by the irs related to this period. in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the irs commenced its field examination of certain tyco international u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 2001 through 2004. tyco international's u.s. federal tax filings for years subsequent to 2004 also remain open to examination by the irs. see note 17 for additional information regarding the status of irs examinations. the company files income tax returns on a combined, unitary, or stand-alone basis in multiple state and local jurisdictions, which generally have statutes of limitations ranging from 3 to 5 years. various state and local income tax returns are currently in the process of examination or administrative appeal. the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries file income tax returns in the countries in which they have operations. generally, these countries have statutes of limitations ranging from 3 to 7 years. 131 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) as of september 26, 2008, under applicable statutes, the following tax years remained subject to examination in the major tax jurisdictions indicated: jurisdiction open years belgium 2006 through 2008 brazil 2003 through 2008 canada 2001 through 2008 china 2003 through 2008 czech republic 2007 through 2008 france 2002 through 2008 germany 2003 through 2008 hong kong 2002 through 2008 india 2001 through 2008 italy 2004 through 2008 japan 2003 through 2008 korea 2003 through 2008 luxembourg 2007 through 2008 netherlands 2007 through 2008 portugal 2004 through 2008 singapore 2001 through 2008 spain 2003 through 2008 switzerland 2006 through 2008 united kingdom 2006 through 2008 united states, federal and state and local 1991 through 2008 in most jurisdictions, taxing authorities retain the ability to review prior tax years and to adjust any net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards from these years that are utilized in a subsequent period. although it is not possible to predict the timing or results of these pending examinations, the company currently does not anticipate there will be significant changes in the next twelve months to the amount of unrecognized tax benefits inherent in the company's consolidated balance sheet as of september 26, 2008. 20. other income (expense), net in fiscal 2008, the company recorded other income of $567 million pursuant to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien, of which $545 million ($1.13 for basic earnings per share and $1.12 for diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2008) related to certain incremental tax liabilities recorded by the company in connection with the adoption of fin 48. see notes 2 and 19 for additional information regarding the adoption of fin 48. for further information regarding the tax sharing agreement, see notes 17 and 18. net other expense of $219 million in fiscal 2007 includes an allocation from tyco international of $232 million for loss on retirement of debt. see note 13 for additional information. additionally, in fiscal 2007, the company recorded other income of $13 million associated with tyco international's and 132 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 20. other income (expense), net (continued) covidien's share of certain contingent tax liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. 21. earnings (loss) per share the computation of basic earnings (loss) per share is based on the company's net income (loss) divided by the basic weighted-average number of common shares. on june 29, 2007, the separation from tyco international was completed in a tax-free distribution to the company's shareholders of one common share of tyco electronics ltd. for every four common shares of tyco international held on june 18, 2007. as a result, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings (loss) per share and basic earnings (loss) per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. the following table sets forth the denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share computations: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) weighted-average shares outstanding: basic 483 497 497 share options and restricted share awards 3 diluted 486 497 497 for fiscal 2008 and 2007, certain share options were not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the underlying exercise prices were greater than the average market prices of tyco electronics' common shares and inclusion would be antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share totaled 21 million and 20 million as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. for the year ended september 28, 2007, options to purchase tyco electronics' common shares with the underlying exercise prices less than the average market prices were outstanding, but were excluded from the calculations of diluted loss per share as inclusion of these securities would have been antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted loss per share totaled 3 million as of september 28, 2007. the separation and distribution agreement entered into pursuant to separation requires that the company issue common shares, as needed, to satisfy convertible debentures issued prior to separation by tyco international and retained by tyco international subsequent to separation. during fiscal 2008, approximately 230,000 shares were issued to satisfy those convertible debentures. those shares are reflected in both weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding based on the underlying date of issuance. as of fiscal year end 2008, the expected number of contingently issuable shares to holders of tyco international convertible debt is immaterial. 133 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 22. equity parent company investment and separation related equity adjustments for all periods prior to june 29, 2007, tyco international's investment in the electronics businesses is shown as parent company investment in the consolidated and combined financial statements. parent company investment represents the historical investment of capital into the company, the company's accumulated net earnings after taxes, and the net effect of transactions with and allocations from tyco international. see note 18 for additional information regarding the allocation to the company of various expenses incurred by tyco international. on june 29, 2007, tyco international completed a distribution of one common share of tyco electronics ltd. for every four common shares of tyco international. following the separation, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. after the separation adjustments were recorded on june 29, 2007, the remaining parent company investment balance, which includes all earnings prior to the separation, was transferred to contributed surplus. net income subsequent to the separation is included in accumulated earnings. during fiscal 2007, the company assumed $1,091 million of contingent tax liabilities from tyco international and recorded a related receivable of $844 million from tyco international and covidien to reflect the 69% indemnification granted by each. these items were recorded as adjustments to contributed surplus on the consolidated and combined financial statements. preferred shares the company has authorized 125,000,000 preferred shares, par value of $0.20 per share, none of which were issued and outstanding at september 26, 2008. rights as to dividends, return of capital, redemption, conversion, voting, and otherwise with respect to the preferred shares may be determined by the company's board of directors on or before the time of issuance. in the event of the liquidation of the company, the holders of any preferred shares then outstanding would be entitled to payment to them of the amount for which the preferred shares were subscribed and any unpaid dividends prior to any payment to the common shareholders. dividends in september 2008, the company's board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per common share. the dividend was paid on november 4, 2008. the declared but unpaid dividend is recorded in accrued and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at fiscal year end 2008. share repurchase program in september 2007, the company's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of $750 million to purchase a portion of the company's outstanding common shares. the company's board of directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program from $750 million to $1,250 million in march 2008 and an additional increase in the program from $1,250 million to $2,000 million in july 2008. in fiscal 2008, the company purchased approximately 37 million common shares for $1,269 million under this program, of which $1,242 million was paid as of september 26, 2008. no common shares were repurchased under this program in fiscal 2007. 134 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 23. accumulated other comprehensive income the components of accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows: currency translation (1)(2) unrealized gain (loss) on securities unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs (loss) gain on cash flow hedge accumulated other comprehensive income (in millions) balance at october 1, 2005 $ 657 $ 1 $ (327 ) $ $ 331 pre-tax current period change 242 150 392 income tax expense (53 ) (53 ) balance at september 29, 2006 899 1 (230 ) 670 pre-tax current period change 453 319 (53 ) 719 income tax expense (112 ) (112 ) 1,352 1 (23 ) (53 ) 1,277 adoption of sfas no. 158: pre-tax current period change (347 ) (347 ) income tax benefit 122 122 total (225 ) (225 ) balance at september 28, 2007 1,352 1 (248 ) (53 ) 1,052 pre-tax current period change (22 ) (159 ) 8 (173 ) income tax benefit (1 ) 52 (1 ) 50 balance at september 26, 2008 $ 1,330 $ $ (355 ) $ (46 ) $ 929 (1) during fiscal 2008 and 2006, $6 million and $38 million, respectively, were transferred from currency translation adjustments as a result of the sale of non-u.s. subsidiaries. these gains are included in income (loss) from discontinued operations in the consolidated and combined statement of operations. (2) includes hedge of net investment foreign exchange gains or losses, offsetting foreign exchange gains or losses attributable to the translation of the net investments. 24. share plans prior to separation on june 29, 2007, all equity awards (restricted share awards and share options) held by company employees were granted under the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan or other tyco international equity incentive plans. all equity awards granted by the company subsequent to separation were granted under the tyco electronics ltd. 2007 stock and incentive plan (the "2007 plan"). the 2007 plan is administered by the management development and compensation committee of the board of directors of tyco electronics, which consists exclusively of independent directors of tyco electronics and provides for the award of share options, stock appreciation rights, annual performance bonuses, long-term performance awards, restricted units, deferred stock units, restricted shares, promissory shares, and other share-based awards (collectively, "awards"). the 2007 plan provides for a maximum of 25 million common shares to be issued as awards, subject to adjustment as provided under the terms of the 2007 plan. the 2007 plan allows for the use of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares to be used to satisfy such awards. 135 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) prior to the separation, all employee equity awards were granted by tyco international. at separation, significantly all of tyco international's outstanding restricted share awards issued to company employees prior to september 29, 2006 were converted into restricted share awards of the company at a ratio of one share of the company for every four tyco international common shares. the conversion of those pre-september 29, 2006 awards also resulted in the issuance of one restricted share award in tyco international and covidien. the conversion of pre-september 29, 2006 awards to executives and employees of tyco international and covidien resulted in the issuance of a tyco electronics ltd. restricted share award for every four tyco international awards that existed. the remaining restricted share and share option awards issued to company employees converted into restricted share and share option awards of the company based on a ratio of the company's final pre-separation when-issued share price and tyco international's pre-separation closing share price. all share option awards granted prior to september 29, 2006 to company employees who were identified as "tyco corporate employees" prior to separation converted to share option awards in each of the three post-separation companies based on ratios of the respective company's final pre-separation when-issued share price and tyco international's pre-separation closing share price. all share option award conversions were done in accordance with sections 409a and 424 of the code. upon separation, all performance conditions on outstanding performance share awards to company employees were lifted and those awards converted to restricted share awards in the company's stock only. restricted share awards restricted share awards are granted subject to certain restrictions. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant under the 2007 plan. all restrictions on the award will lapse upon retirement or normal retirement eligibility, death, or disability of the employee. recipients of restricted shares have the right to vote such shares and receive dividends, whereas recipients of restricted units have no voting rights and receive dividend equivalents. for grants that vest based on certain specified performance criteria, the fair market value of the shares or units is expensed over the period of performance, once achievement of criteria is deemed probable. for grants that vest through passage of time, the fair market value of the award at the time of the grant is amortized to expense over the period of vesting. the fair value of restricted share awards is determined based on the market value of the company's shares on the grant date. restricted share awards generally vest in one-third increments over a period of four years beginning in the second year, as determined by the management development and compensation committee, or upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed targeted levels, if applicable. the compensation expense recognized for restricted share awards is net of estimated forfeitures. 136 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) restricted share award activity for grants as of fiscal year end 2008 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: non-vested restricted share awards shares weighted-average grant-date fair value non-vested at september 28, 2007 4,398,545 $ 36.96 granted 239,884 33.94 vested (938,048 ) 36.05 forfeited (372,111 ) 37.17 non-vested at september 26, 2008 3,328,270 $ 36.97 the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco electronics restricted share awards granted during fiscal 2008 and 2007 were $33.94 and $39.69, respectively. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco international restricted share awards granted to tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were $30.34 and $28.96, respectively. as of fiscal year end 2008, there was $61 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested tyco electronics restricted share awards. that cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 fiscal years. deferred stock units deferred stock units ("dsus") are notional units that are tied to the value of tyco electronics common shares with distribution deferred until termination of employment. distribution, when made, will be in the form of actual shares. similar to restricted share grants that vest through the passage of time, the fair value of dsus is determined based on the market value of the company's shares on the grant date and is amortized to expense over the vesting period. recipients of dsus do not have the right to vote such shares and do not have the right to receive cash dividends. however, they have the right to receive dividend equivalents, which are delivered at the same time as the underlying dsus. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant. as of fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, 50,010 and 44,450 vested but undistributed dsus were outstanding, respectively. the grant-date fair value of vested but undistributed dsu grants was expensed immediately and was not significant during fiscal 2008 and post-separation 2007. there were no dsus issued prior to separation. share options share options are granted to purchase tyco electronics common shares at prices which are equal to or greater than the market price of the common shares on the date the option is granted. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant under the 2007 plan. options generally vest and become exercisable in equal annual installments over a period of four years and will generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. 137 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) share option activity for grants as of fiscal year end 2008 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: shares weighted- average exercise price weighted- average remaining contractual term aggregate intrinsic value (in years) (in millions) outstanding at september 28, 2007 32,307,571 $ 42.86 granted 128,900 33.15 exercised (2,578,127 ) 21.70 expired (4,125,258 ) 50.30 forfeited (268,066 ) 37.06 outstanding at september 26, 2008 25,465,020 $ 43.81 4.5 27 vested and unvested expected to vest at september 26, 2008 24,844,248 $ 43.97 4.5 27 exercisable at september 26, 2008 21,185,069 45.13 3.8 27 the conversion of tyco international share option awards into tyco electronics share option awards at separation was considered a modification of an award in accordance with sfas no. 123r. as a result, the company compared the fair value of the award immediately prior to the separation to the fair value immediately after the separation to measure incremental compensation cost. the conversion resulted in an increase in the fair value of the awards of $13 million. of that amount, the company recorded non-cash compensation expense of $1 million and $11 million in selling, general, and administrative and separation costs in the consolidated and combined statement of operations for fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. the remaining $1 million of modification expense will be recorded through 2011. as of fiscal year end 2008, there was $35 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested tyco electronics share options granted under tyco electronics share option plans. the cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. share-based compensation effective october 1, 2005, the company adopted the provisions of sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective transition method. as a result, the company's results from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 include incremental share-based compensation expense of $40 million. share-based compensation cost during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 totaled $62 million, $100 million, and $69 million, respectively, of which $58 million, $93 million, and $64 million, respectively, have been included in the consolidated and combined statements of operations within selling, general, and administrative expenses and separation costs. share-based compensation expense of $4 million, $7 million, and $5 million, respectively, has been included in the consolidated and combined statements of operations within income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006. the company has recognized a related tax benefit associated with its share-based compensation arrangements of $17 million, $27 million, and $19 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. 138 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) the grant-date fair value of each option grant is estimated using the black-scholes-merton option pricing model. the fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. expected share price volatility was calculated based on the historical volatility of the stock of a composite of peers of tyco electronics and implied volatility derived from exchange traded options on that same composite of peers. the average expected life was based on the contractual term of the option and expected employee exercise and post-vesting employment termination behavior. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. the expected annual dividend per share was based on tyco electronics' expected dividend rate. the compensation expense recognized is net of estimated forfeitures. forfeitures are estimated based on voluntary termination behavior, as well as an analysis of actual option forfeitures. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco electronics options granted during fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007 and the weighted-average assumptions tyco electronics used in the black-scholes-merton option pricing model for fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 weighted-average grant-date fair value $ 8.87 $ 12.34 assumptions: expected share price volatility 30 % 30 % risk free interest rate 3.2 % 4.9 % expected annual dividend per share $ 0.59 $ 0.56 expected life of options (years) 5.0 5.2 the weighted-average grant-date fair values of tyco international options granted to tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 and the weighted-average assumptions tyco international used in the black-scholes-merton option pricing model for pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 weighted-average grant-date fair value $ 9.52 $ 8.96 assumptions: expected share price volatility 32 % 34 % risk free interest rate 4.3 % 4.3 % expected annual dividend per share $ 0.64 $ 0.40 expected life of options (years) 4.9 4.0 the total intrinsic value of tyco electronics options exercised during fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007 were $39 million and $7 million, respectively. the total cash received by the company related to the exercise of options totaled $54 million and $13 million in fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007, respectively. the related excess cash tax benefit classified as a financing 139 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) cash inflow for fiscal 2008 and 2007 in the consolidated and combined statement of cash flows was not significant. the total intrinsic value of tyco international options exercised by tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was $48 million and $22 million, respectively. employee stock purchase plans the company also maintains employee stock purchase plans for the benefit of employees of certain qualified u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries. the terms of these plans provide employees the right to purchase shares of the company's stock at a stated price and receive certain tax benefits. the significant plans are discussed below. substantially all full-time employees of the company's u.s. subsidiaries and employees of certain qualified non-u.s. subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (the "esp plan"). eligible employees authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of shares. the company matches a portion of the employee contribution by contributing an additional 15% of the employee's payroll deduction on the first $40,000 of payroll deductions. all shares purchased under the esp plan are purchased on the open market by a designated broker. participation in the esp plan began in december 2007. the company incurred $1 million in matching contribution expense in fiscal 2008. substantially all full-time employees of the company's united kingdom subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the tyco electronics ltd. savings related share plan (the "uk saye plan"). under the uk saye plan, eligible employees are granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at 85% of the market price at the time of grant. options under the uk saye plan are generally exercisable after a period of three years and expire six months after the date of vesting. participation in the uk saye plan began in february 2008. as of fiscal year end 2008, 123,818 unvested options are outstanding under the uk saye plan; there are no vested options outstanding. non-cash compensation expense related to the uk saye plan was not significant in fiscal 2008. 25. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data the company aggregates its operating segments into four reportable segments based upon the company's internal business structure. see note 1 for a description of the segments in which the company operates. segment performance is evaluated based on net sales and operating income. generally, the company considers all expenses to be of an operating nature, and, accordingly, allocates them to each reportable segment. costs specific to a segment are charged to the segment. corporate expenses, such as headquarters administrative costs, are allocated to the segments based on segment income from operations. net litigation settlement costs and separation costs incurred in fiscal 2008 and 2007 were not allocated to the segments. intersegment sales are not material and are recorded at selling prices that approximate market prices. 140 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 25. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data (continued) net sales and income from operations by business segment are presented in the following table for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006: net sales income from operations fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 11,043 $ 10,111 $ 9,386 $ 1,287 (1) $ 1,339 $ 1,404 network solutions 2,163 1,897 1,740 254 231 268 undersea telecommunications 1,165 565 300 160 38 15 wireless systems 463 386 385 67 39 55 litigation settlement costs, net and separation costs (22 ) (931 ) total $ 14,834 $ 12,959 $ 11,811 $ 1,746 $ 716 $ 1,742 (1) includes goodwill and long-lived asset impairments of $137 million in fiscal 2008. see note 5 for additional information. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006. as the company is not organized by product or service, it is not practicable to disclose net sales by product or service. depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: depreciation and amortization capital expenditures fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 466 $ 436 $ 396 $ 529 $ 521 $ 462 network solutions 48 32 32 65 52 38 undersea telecommunications 26 22 15 14 288 (1) 4 wireless systems 19 24 16 11 14 15 total $ 559 $ 514 $ 459 $ 619 $ 875 $ 519 (1) includes $280 million related to the company's exercise of its option to buy five cable-laying sea vessels in fiscal 2007. see note 9 for additional information. 141 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 25. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data (continued) segment assets and a reconciliation of segment assets to total assets at fiscal year end 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: segment assets fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 3,665 $ 3,550 $ 3,320 network solutions 787 704 604 undersea telecommunications 304 155 57 wireless systems 282 234 202 total segment assets (1) 5,038 4,643 4,183 other current assets 2,057 5,353 2,503 non-current assets 14,505 13,692 12,405 total assets $ 21,600 $ 23,688 $ 19,091 (1) segment assets are comprised of accounts receivable and inventory. net sales by geographic region for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 and net property, plant, and equipment by geographic area at fiscal year end 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: net sales (1) property, plant, and equipment, net fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) united states $ 4,619 $ 3,950 $ 3,730 $ 1,093 $ 1,109 $ 1,105 other americas 642 514 460 46 52 42 europe/middle east/africa 5,515 4,816 4,264 1,405 1,325 1,166 asia-pacific 4,058 3,679 3,357 973 926 659 total $ 14,834 $ 12,959 $ 11,811 $ 3,517 $ 3,412 $ 2,972 (1) net sales from external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale. 142 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 26. quarterly financial data (unaudited) summarized quarterly financial data for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 first quarter (1) second quarter (2) third quarter (3) fourth quarter (4) (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 3,558 $ 3,662 $ 3,908 $ 3,706 gross income 892 970 997 911 income from continuing operations 868 302 317 107 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 81 (1 ) 13 95 net income 949 301 330 202 basic earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.75 $ 0.62 $ 0.66 $ 0.23 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.16 0.03 0.20 net income 1.91 0.62 0.69 0.43 diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.74 $ 0.62 $ 0.66 $ 0.23 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.16 0.02 0.20 net income 1.90 0.62 0.68 0.43 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: basic 496 486 478 470 diluted 499 489 482 473 (1) income from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $21 million of net restructuring and other charges and $592 million of income pursuant to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien. net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $81 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) income from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $23 million of litigation settlement costs, $25 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $13 million of income pursuant to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien. (3) income from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $16 million of net restructuring and other charges. net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $13 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $123 million of net restructuring and other charges, $137 million of goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges, $39 million of other expense related to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien, and $33 million of income tax benefit related to the analysis and reconciliation of tax accounts. net income includes $95 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. 143 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 26. quarterly financial data (unaudited) (continued) fiscal 2007 first quarter (1) second quarter third quarter (2) fourth quarter (3) (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 2,975 $ 3,204 $ 3,292 $ 3,488 gross income 787 832 837 883 income (loss) from continuing operations 235 281 (933 ) 239 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 46 (4 ) (435 ) 17 net income (loss) 281 277 (1,368 ) 256 basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.47 $ 0.57 $ (1.88 ) $ 0.48 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.10 (0.01 ) (0.87 ) 0.04 net income (loss) 0.57 0.56 (2.75 ) 0.52 diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.47 $ 0.57 $ (1.88 ) $ 0.48 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.10 (0.01 ) (0.87 ) 0.03 net income (loss) 0.57 0.56 (2.75 ) 0.51 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: (4) basic 497 497 497 496 diluted 497 497 497 500 (1) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $46 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) loss from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $891 million of net litigation settlement costs, $25 million of separation costs, $25 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $232 million of allocated loss on retirement of debt. net loss includes a $435 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $19 million of separation costs, $50 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $13 million of other income related to the accretion of interest on certain contingent tax liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. net loss includes $17 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) at separation, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. the computation of diluted loss per share excludes non-vested restricted shares and share options of 4 million for the quarter ending june 29, 2007 as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 144 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. in december 2006, prior to the separation, tegsa, a 100% owned subsidiary of tyco electronics ltd., was formed. tegsa, a luxembourg company, is a holding company that owns directly, or indirectly, all of the operating subsidiaries of tyco electronics ltd. tegsa is the obligor under the company's senior notes, five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, and commercial paper all of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, tyco electronics ltd. the following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for tyco electronics ltd., tegsa, and all other subsidiaries that are not providing a guarantee of debt but which represent assets of tegsa, using the equity method. consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) net sales $ $ $ 14,834 $ $ 14,834 cost of sales 11,064 11,064 gross income 3,770 3,770 selling, general, and administrative expenses 41 10 1,629 1,680 litigation settlement, net 22 22 restructuring and other charges, net 185 185 impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 137 137 income (loss) from operations (63 ) (10 ) 1,819 1,746 interest income 32 32 interest expense (180 ) (8 ) (188 ) other income, net 567 567 equity in net income of subsidiaries 1,682 1,788 (3,470 ) equity in net income of subsidiaries of discontinued operations 188 188 (376 ) intercompany interest and fees (25 ) 84 (59 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,782 1,870 2,351 (3,846 ) 2,157 income taxes (558 ) (558 ) minority interest (5 ) (5 ) income from continuing operations 1,782 1,870 1,788 (3,846 ) 1,594 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 188 188 net income $ 1,782 $ 1,870 $ 1,976 $ (3,846 ) $ 1,782 145 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) net sales $ $ $ 12,959 $ $ 12,959 cost of sales 9,620 9,620 gross income 3,339 3,339 selling, general, and administrative expenses 27 (34 ) 1,607 1,600 litigation settlement, net 887 887 separation costs 44 44 restructuring and other charges, net 92 92 income (loss) from operations (914 ) 34 1,596 716 interest income 11 42 53 interest expense (105 ) (126 ) (231 ) other (expense) income, net (232 ) 13 (219 ) equity in net income of subsidiaries 736 921 (1,657 ) equity in net loss of subsidiaries of discontinued operations (376 ) (376 ) 752 intercompany interest and fees 107 (107 ) income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest (554 ) 360 1,418 (905 ) 319 income taxes (491 ) (491 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) income (loss) from continuing operations (554 ) 360 921 (905 ) (178 ) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (376 ) (376 ) net income (loss) $ (554 ) $ 360 $ 545 $ (905 ) $ (554 ) 146 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) net sales $ $ 11,811 $ 11,811 cost of sales 8,617 8,617 gross income 3,194 3,194 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,445 1,445 restructuring and other charges, net 7 7 income from operations 1,742 1,742 interest income 48 48 interest expense (256 ) (256 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,534 1,534 income taxes (81 ) (81 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) income from continuing operations 1,447 1,447 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (246 ) (246 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,201 1,201 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) (8 ) net income $ $ 1,193 $ 1,193 147 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating balance sheet as of september 26, 2008 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ 1,086 $ $ 1,086 accounts receivable, net 2,726 2,726 inventories 2,312 2,312 intercompany receivables 1 23 (24 ) prepaid expenses and other current assets 2 86 679 767 deferred income taxes 204 204 total current assets 3 86 7,030 (24 ) 7,095 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,517 3,517 goodwill 7,068 7,068 intangible assets, net 486 486 deferred income taxes 1,915 1,915 investment in subsidiaries 11,069 12,957 (24,026 ) intercompany loans receivable 167 6,551 5,500 (12,218 ) receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 1,218 1,218 other assets 21 280 301 total assets $ 11,239 $ 19,615 $ 27,014 $ (36,268 ) $ 21,600 liabilities and shareholders' equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ $ $ 20 $ $ 20 accounts payable 27 1,442 1,469 accrued and other current liabilities 83 81 1,432 1,596 deferred revenue 247 247 intercompany payables 23 1 (24 ) total current liabilities 133 81 3,142 (24 ) 3,332 long-term debt 2,998 163 3,161 intercompany loans payable 33 5,467 6,718 (12,218 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 721 721 deferred income taxes 289 289 income taxes 2,291 2,291 other liabilities 723 723 total liabilities 166 8,546 14,047 (12,242 ) 10,517 minority interest 10 10 equity 11,073 11,069 12,957 (24,026 ) 11,073 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 11,239 $ 19,615 $ 27,014 $ (36,268 ) $ 21,600 148 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating balance sheet as of september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 2 $ $ 940 $ $ 942 accounts receivable, net 2,594 2,594 inventories 2,049 2,049 class action settlement escrow 928 928 class action settlement receivable 2,064 2,064 intercompany receivables 181 29 (84 ) (126 ) prepaid expenses and other current assets (2 ) 591 589 deferred income taxes 325 325 assets of discontinued operations 505 505 total current assets 3,173 29 6,920 (126 ) 9,996 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,412 3,412 goodwill 7,177 7,177 intangible assets, net 526 526 deferred income taxes 1,397 1,397 investment in subsidiaries 11,136 13,329 (24,465 ) investment in subsidiaries of discontinued operations 239 239 (478 ) intercompany loans receivable 6,267 5,024 (11,291 ) receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 844 844 other assets 2 334 336 total assets $ 14,548 $ 19,866 $ 25,634 $ (36,360 ) $ 23,688 liabilities and shareholders' equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ $ $ 5 $ $ 5 accounts payable 1 1,342 1,343 class action settlement liability 2,992 2,992 accrued and other current liabilities 61 3 1,353 1,417 deferred revenue 181 181 intercompany payables 29 181 (172 ) (38 ) liabilities of discontinued operations 266 266 total current liabilities 3,083 184 2,975 (38 ) 6,204 long-term debt 3,283 90 3,373 intercompany loans payable 88 5,024 6,267 (11,379 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 607 607 deferred income taxes 271 271 income taxes 1,242 1,242 other liabilities 599 599 total liabilities 3,171 8,491 12,051 (11,417 ) 12,296 minority interest 15 15 equity 11,377 11,375 13,568 (24,943 ) 11,377 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 14,548 $ 19,866 $ 25,634 $ (36,360 ) $ 23,688 149 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash (used in) provided by continuing operating activities $ (649 ) $ (38 ) $ 1,701 $ $ 1,014 net cash used in discontinued operating activities (25 ) (25 ) net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (649 ) (38 ) 1,676 989 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (619 ) (619 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 42 42 acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (3 ) (3 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (2 ) (2 ) class action settlement escrow 936 936 proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operations, net of cash retained by business sold 571 571 decrease in intercompany loans (222 ) 159 63 other (8 ) (16 ) (24 ) net cash provided by (used in) continuing investing activities 706 159 (27 ) 63 901 net cash used in discontinued investing activities (6 ) (6 ) net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 706 159 (33 ) 63 895 cash flows from financing activities: net increase in commercial paper 630 630 proceeds from long-term debt 800 100 900 repayment of long-term debt (1,750 ) (1 ) (1,751 ) changes in parent company equity 1,398 199 (1,597 ) repurchase of common shares (1,242 ) (1,242 ) payment of common dividends (271 ) (271 ) proceeds from exercise of share options 54 54 transfer to discontinued operations (80 ) (80 ) loan borrowing from parent 63 (63 ) minority interest distributions paid (11 ) (11 ) other 2 (3 ) (1 ) net cash used in continuing financing activities (59 ) (121 ) (1,529 ) (63 ) (1,772 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 33 33 net cash used in financing activities (59 ) (121 ) (1,496 ) (63 ) (1,739 ) effect of currency translation on cash 1 1 net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (2 ) 148 146 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (2 ) (2 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 2 940 942 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ $ $ 1,086 $ $ 1,086 150 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash (used in) provided by continuing operating activities $ (74 ) $ (264 ) $ 1,846 $ $ 1,508 net cash provided by discontinued operating activities 17 17 net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (74 ) (264 ) 1,863 1,525 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (875 ) (875 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 41 41 purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (4 ) (4 ) class action settlement escrow (928 ) (928 ) proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operation, net of cash retained by business sold 227 227 decrease in intercompany loans 2,011 (2,011 ) other 1 1 net cash (used in) provided by continuing investing activities (928 ) 2,011 (610 ) (2,011 ) (1,538 ) net cash provided by discontinued investing activities 10 10 net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (928 ) 2,011 (600 ) (2,011 ) (1,528 ) cash flows from financing activities: proceeds from long-term debt 5,676 5,676 repayment of long-term debt (2,393 ) (62 ) (2,455 ) allocated debt activity (3,743 ) (3,743 ) net transactions with former parent 875 (2,956 ) 3,193 1,112 changes in parent company equity 129 1,669 (1,798 ) proceeds from exercise of share options 13 13 transfers to discontinued operations (134 ) (134 ) loan borrowing from parent (2,011 ) 2,011 minority interest distributions paid (7 ) (7 ) other (13 ) 5 (8 ) net cash provided by (used in) continuing financing activities 1,004 (1,747 ) (814 ) 2,011 454 net cash used in discontinued financing activities (23 ) (23 ) net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,004 (1,747 ) (837 ) 2,011 431 effect of currency translation on cash 46 46 net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2 472 474 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (4 ) (4 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 472 472 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ 2 $ $ 940 $ $ 942 151 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash provided by continuing operating activities $ $ 1,624 $ 1,624 net cash provided by discontinued operating activities 39 39 net cash provided by operating activities 1,663 1,663 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (519 ) (519 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 6 6 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (23 ) (23 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (4 ) (4 ) other 27 27 net cash used in continuing investing activities (513 ) (513 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (126 ) (126 ) net cash used in investing activities (639 ) (639 ) cash flows from financing activities: repayment of long-term debt (113 ) (113 ) allocated debt activity (713 ) (713 ) net transactions with former parent (74 ) (74 ) transfers from discontinued operations (7 ) (7 ) minority interest distributions paid (12 ) (12 ) other (4 ) (4 ) net cash used in continuing financing activities (923 ) (923 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 95 95 net cash used in financing activities (828 ) (828 ) effect of currency translation on cash (1 ) (1 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents 195 195 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (8 ) (8 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 285 285 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ $ 472 $ 472 152 tyco electronics ltd. schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 description balance at beginning of year additions charged to costs and expenses acquisitions, divestitures and other deductions balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2008 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable $ 57 $ 5 $ $ (20 ) $ 42 fiscal 2007 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 56 9 4 (12 ) 57 fiscal 2006 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 67 1 1 (13 ) 56 153 quicklinks tyco electronics ltd. table of contents special note about forward-looking statements part i quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective is to manage our foreign currency exposures on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 26, 2008 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $95 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $116 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 28, 2007 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $59 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $72 million. however, such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. 65 interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of the fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of the variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). at september 26, 2008, we had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of our 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of our 6.00% senior notes. at september 28, 2007, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. based on our floating rate debt balances of $1,147 million and $1,250 million at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we have used and may use in the future forward or option contracts. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to twenty-four months and periodically enter into commodity forward or option contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 26, 2008, we had entered into commodity forward contracts, specifically related to gold, designated as cash flow hedges for a notional value of $21 million. a 10% appreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 26, 2008 prices would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of prices would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. see note 15 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 11 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business current and future conditions in the global economy and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. as a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. if the global economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additionally, we are heavily dependent on the end market industry dynamics for our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand patterns of these markets. for example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, is experiencing a significant downturn described below. the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 23% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation, which reflects current market conditions. the aerospace and defense industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, has similarly undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. these periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we are dependent on the automotive industry which is experiencing significant declines in the current economic environment. approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 were to customers in the automotive industry. automotive manufacturers globally are experiencing significant declines in sales of vehicles from the current economic downturn, credit conditions, and volatile fuel costs. additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 23% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change and has been affected by declines in consumer and business spending due to global economic conditions. additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their 11 suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our failure to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. approximately 9% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends primarily on underlying business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products, which has been affected by reduced spending due to global economic conditions. the amount of this demand and therefore our sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including the rate of technological change, degree of consumer acceptance of new products, and general economic conditions. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and credit markets globally have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. if these conditions continue or worsen, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth. the markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological change. our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. there are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure each year to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 3%. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 12 we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace and defense industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, and zinc. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including copper and gold, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. over the last three years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 54% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to the development cycles. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. during fiscal 2008, we have sold or discontinued businesses and product lines with annualized net sales of approximately $1 billion, and we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may continue to sell businesses or product lines. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the 13 diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with the current credit crisis, have caused significant volatility in interest rates and equity prices, which could decrease the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. we also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. if we fail to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes, concerns about the potential for material errors in our financial reporting could cause the value of our securities to be adversely affected. subsequent to the filing of our combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement on form 10 with the sec, we determined that our combined financial statements contained certain errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. we substantially relied upon the processes at tyco international to prepare our carve-out accounts for income taxes. we have determined that certain of those tax processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. concurrently, we determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. subsequent to separation, in our periodic reports we continued to disclose a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. as of september 26, 2008, management has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a sufficient period of time 14 and, accordingly, has further concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of september 26, 2008. unless we remediate the material weakness, concerns about the potential for material errors in our financial reporting could adversely affect the value of our securities. if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets is found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. we are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the united states. non-u.s. markets account for a substantial portion of our business. during fiscal 2008, non-u.s. markets constituted over 69% of our net sales. we employ more than 82% of our workforce outside the united states. our customers are located throughout the world and we have many manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities outside the united states. because of our extensive non-u.s. operations, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; longer payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as compared to the united states, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held abroad; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. many of our products that are manufactured outside of the united states are manufactured in asia. in particular, we have sizeable operations in china, including manufacturing operations, and in fiscal 2008, 12% of our net sales were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. 15 we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and non-u.s. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. environmental laws outside of the united states are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of 16 hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction on hazardous substances, end of life vehicle and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. we cannot predict the extent to which these laws will proliferate in other jurisdictions or expand to address other materials or other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement or that we will not pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the size and importance of the patent or trademark in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, and product liability. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreement contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. 17 the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to repurchase the notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. future acquisitions may not be successful. we will continue to investigate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offering. we cannot assure you, however, that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. risks relating to our separation from tyco international we are responsible for a portion of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities, including those relating to shareholder litigation. in connection with our separation from tyco international on june 29, 2007, we, tyco international, and covidien ltd. ("covidien") entered into a separation and distribution agreement which governs the relationships among us, tyco international, and covidien subsequent to the separation and provided for the allocation among us, tyco international, and covidien of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement among the parties, we, tyco international, and covidien have agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation, any actions with respect to the separation plan or the distribution brought by any third party and tax liabilities for periods prior to and including the date of separation of june 29, 2007. for more information on the contingent tax liabilities, see "we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date." contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which were allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. 18 prior to the announcement by tyco international of the planned separation of tyco electronics and covidien in january 2006, tyco international and certain of its former directors and officers were named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action lawsuits, most of which were part of a class action settlement of 32 lawsuits reached in 2007, for which we were responsible for 31%. holders of approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members opted out of the class action settlement and a number of these individuals and entities have filed actions separately against tyco international and/or tyco international, covidien, and us. two additional securities cases were settled in fiscal 2008. several securities cases remain outstanding, including several cases asserting claims arising under the employee retirement income security act ("erisa"). as a part of the separation and distribution agreement, any existing or potential liabilities related to the securities actions were allocated among tyco international, covidien, and us. we are responsible for 31% of potential liabilities that may arise upon the resolution of the remaining pending litigation. if the unresolved securities proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco international, our share of any additional potential losses under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. tyco international has the right to control the defense and settlement of outstanding securities litigation, subject to certain limitations. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlements of outstanding litigation may not be in our best interests. furthermore, in the event of any future settlements, we may have limited notice before we would be required to pay our portion of the settlement amount. moreover, tyco international stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that we, tyco international, and covidien each will be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations arising from the tyco international shareholder litigation. the stipulation also provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties are jointly and severally liable for the defaulting party's obligations. we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, tyco international, and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, have become our tax liabilities. although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. 19 our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that we have assessed under the provisions of financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109, " have been reflected as a liability in the consolidated and combined financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. we recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco international, and covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. 20 in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, then we, tyco international, or covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution by tyco international. similar limitations and restrictions apply to tyco international and covidien. the distribution may result in corporate level taxable gain to tyco international under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, tyco international's common shares, or covidien's common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of tyco international's common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, tyco international's common shares, or covidien's common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, tyco international or covidien may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of tyco international's common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, tyco international's common shares, or covidien's common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, tyco international would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of tyco international or covidien or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving, or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. tyco international and covidien are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax-favored transaction under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's 21 acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our securityholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. tax legislation we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. the u.s. congress has in the past considered and is anticipated to continue to consider legislation affecting the tax treatment of companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions or companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. we continue to monitor such potential u.s. federal legislative proposals, as well as potential proposals relating to deductible payments from u.s. subsidiaries to foreign parents. tax legislation may be introduced, passed, or modified by the u.s. congress in the future that would have material adverse effects on us if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise materially adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. legislation relating to governmental contracts we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that move their corporate locations abroad. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to the u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money 22 rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company also may agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. risks relating to our common shares the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; extreme volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by the global economic downturn and deterioration of credit conditions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies. certain provisions of our bye-laws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our bye-laws contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these bye-law provisions: shareholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors; shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent; shareholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at shareholder meetings; restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination (including an amalgamation under bermuda law) between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors; and our board of directors may without shareholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a shareholder rights plan. these provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. 23 risk factors." there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective is to manage our foreign currency exposures on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 26, 2008 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $95 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $116 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 28, 2007 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $59 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $72 million. however, such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. 65 interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of the fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of the variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). at september 26, 2008, we had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of our 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of our 6.00% senior notes. at september 28, 2007, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. based on our floating rate debt balances of $1,147 million and $1,250 million at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we have used and may use in the future forward or option contracts. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to twenty-four months and periodically enter into commodity forward or option contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 26, 2008, we had entered into commodity forward contracts, specifically related to gold, designated as cash flow hedges for a notional value of $21 million. a 10% appreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 26, 2008 prices would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of prices would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. see note 15 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. item 8. financial statements and supplementary data the following consolidated and combined financial statements and schedule specified by this item, together with the reports thereon of deloitte &amp; touche llp, are presented following item 15 and the signature pages of this report: financial statements: reports of independent registered public accounting firm consolidated and combined statements of operations for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 consolidated balance sheets at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 consolidated and combined statements of equity for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 consolidated and combined statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 notes to consolidated and combined financial statements financial statement schedule: schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts 66 all other financial statements and schedules have been omitted since the information required to be submitted has been included in the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes or because they are either not applicable or not required under the rules of regulation s-x. item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures none. item 9a. controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rule 13a-15(e) under the exchange act) as of september 26, 2008. based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of september 26, 2008, because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for income taxes described in our information statement filed as exhibit 99.1 to our current report on form 8-k on june 8, 2007 and in management's report on internal control over financial reporting below. disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act). management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we previously disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. subsequent to the filing of our combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement with the sec, we determined that our combined financial statements contained certain errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. we substantially relied upon the processes at tyco international to prepare our carve-out accounts for income taxes. we determined that certain of those tax processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. we also determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to income taxes. as of september 26, 2008, management has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a sufficient period of time and, accordingly, has further concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of september 26, 2008. 67 a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies and procedures may deteriorate. deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, which is included in this annual report. changes in internal control over financial reporting we have enhanced our tax accounting resources and capabilities to remediate the material weakness indicated above, and have implemented new control processes and procedures over the past several months. improvements to our control processes included the following: we implemented appropriately designed processes and controls and instituted multi-level management reviews. we completed analysis and reconciliation of our tax accounts and recorded necessary adjustments while implementing sustainable reconciliation processes to ensure continued accuracy of these accounts. we enhanced policies and procedures relating to tax account reconciliation and analysis. we expanded tax accounting resources at both the corporate and regional levels with personnel experienced in accounting for income taxes in accordance with u.s. gaap. we conducted training for both existing and newly hired tax accountants along with other accounting and finance personnel who are responsible for analyzing, documenting and accounting for taxes in their jurisdiction. we increased accountability for accounting for income taxes by recording tax accounting at the legal entity, developed and communicated clear responsibilities and expectations, and implemented a multi-level review process. we invested in additional information systems to improve control around newly implemented processes and enable more effective review. although we believe that the improvements in our control processes as designed are adequate to remediate the material weakness, we will not consider the material weakness to be remediated until the new processes operate for a sufficient period of time, and we are confident that they are operating effectively. item 9b. other information none. 68 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance directors and executive officers the following table presents information with respect to our directors and executive officers as of january 1, 2009. name age position(s) thomas j. lynch 54 chief executive officer and director pierre r. brondeau 51 director ram charan 69 director juergen w. gromer 63 director robert m. hernandez 64 director daniel j. phelan 59 director frederic m. poses 66 director lawrence s. smith 61 director paula a. sneed 61 director david p. steiner 48 director john c. van scoter 47 director sandra s. wijnberg 52 director mario calastri 51 senior vice president and treasurer alan c. clarke 55 president, network solutions terrence r. curtin 40 executive vice president and chief financial officer joseph b. donahue 50 president, automotive division charles p. dougherty 46 president, wireless systems jane a. leipold 48 senior vice president, global human resources minoru okamoto 59 president, communications &amp; industrial solutions robert j. ott 47 senior vice president and corporate controller jeffrey g. rea 43 president, specialty products eric j. resch 51 senior vice president and tax officer robert a. scott 58 executive vice president and general counsel joan e. wainwright 48 senior vice president, marketing and communications thomas j. lynch serves on our board of directors and has been chief executive officer of tyco electronics since january 2006 and was previously president of tyco engineered products and services since joining tyco international in september 2004. prior to joining tyco international, mr. lynch was at motorola where he was executive vice president and president and chief executive officer, personal communications sector from august 2002 to september 2004; executive vice president and president, integrated electronic systems sector from january 2001 to august 2002; senior vice president and general manager, satellite &amp; broadcast network systems, broadband communications sector from february 2000 to january 2001; and senior vice president and general manager, satellite &amp; broadcast network systems, general instrument corporation from may 1998 to february 2000. mr. lynch holds a bachelor's degree in commerce from rider university. pierre r. brondeau joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. dr. brondeau was named president and chief operating officer of rohm &amp; haas company, a u.s. based manufacturer of specialty materials, in may 2008 and previously was executive vice president of electronics materials and specialty materials of rohm &amp; haas company from 2006. he also has served as vice-president, business group executive, electronic materials, president and chief executive officer, rohm &amp; haas electronic materials llc, and regional director, europe, from 2003 to 2006, and previously as vice-president, business group 69 director, electronic materials, president and chief executive officer, shipley company, llc, from 1999 to 2003. dr. brondeau received a masters degree from universite de montpellier and a doctorate from institut national des sciences appliquees de toulouse. ram charan joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. since 1978, dr. charan has served as an advisor to executives and corporate boards and provides expertise in corporate governance, global strategy and succession. dr. charan received a bachelor's degree from banaras hindu university and an mba and a dba from harvard business school. juergen w. gromer joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. dr. gromer was president of tyco electronics from april 1999 until he retired from that position on december 31, 2007. from september 2006 until our separation from tyco international, he also held the position of president of the electronic components business segment of tyco international. dr. gromer held a number of senior executive positions over the previous 10 years with amp incorporated. dr. gromer received his undergraduate degree and doctorate in physics from the university of stuttgart. dr. gromer is a director of wabco holdings inc., marvell technology group ltd. and rwe rhein-ruhr ag. he is also chairman of the board of the society for economic development of the district bergstrasse/hessen, a member of the advisory board of commerzbank, and a director of the board and vice president of the american chamber of commerce germany. robert m. hernandez joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. mr. hernandez has served as chairman of the board of rti international metals, inc., a producer of titanium mill products and fabricated metal components, from 1990 to the present. from 1994 to 2001, he served as vice chairman and chief financial officer of usx corporation and prior to that served in a variety of positions during his career at usx, beginning in 1968. mr. hernandez received a bachelor's degree from the university of pittsburgh and an mba from the wharton graduate school of the university of pennsylvania. mr. hernandez is lead director of ace ltd., a director of eastman chemical company and chairman of the board of trustees of the equity-bond complex of the blackrock mutual funds. daniel j. phelan joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. mr. phelan has served as chief of staff of glaxosmithkline, a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals and consumer health-related products from may 2008 to the present and previously was senior vice president, human resources from 1994. mr. phelan is responsible for information technology, human resources, corporate strategy and development, world wide real estate and facilities, environmental health and safety, and global security. mr. phelan received bachelor's and law degrees from rutgers university and a master's degree from ohio state university. frederic m. poses joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international, and serves as our chairman. mr. poses was chairman and chief executive officer of trane inc. (formerly american standard companies inc.), a manufacturer and provider of air conditioning systems and services and vehicle control systems from 1999 until its acquisition by ingersoll rand in 2008. from 1998 to 1999, mr. poses was president and chief operating officer of alliedsignal, inc., where he served in various capacities over his career, beginning in 1969. mr. poses holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from new york university. mr. poses is a director of centex corporation and raytheon company. lawrence s. smith joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. mr. smith was executive vice president and co-chief financial officer of comcast corporation, a broadband cable provider, from 2002 until he retired in march 2007. he presently consults for comcast corporation. he served in finance, administration and executive positions at comcast from 1988 to 2002. prior to joining comcast, mr. smith was the chief financial 70 officer of advanta corporation. he also worked for arthur andersen llp for 18 years, where he was a tax partner. mr. smith has a bachelor's degree from ithaca college. mr. smith is a director of air products and chemicals, inc. and gsi commerce inc. paula a. sneed joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. ms. sneed is chair and chief executive officer of phelps prescott group, llc, a strategy and management consulting firm, since 2008. previously she was executive vice president of global marketing resources and initiatives for kraft foods, inc., a worldwide producer of branded food and beverage products, until her retirement in december 2006. she served as group vice president and president of electronic-commerce and marketing services for kraft foods north america, part of kraft foods, inc., from 2000 until 2004, and senior vice president, global marketing resources and initiatives from december 2004 to july 2005. she joined general foods corporation (which later merged with kraft foods) in 1977 and has held a variety of management positions. ms. sneed received a bachelor's degree from simmons college and an mba from harvard graduate school of business. ms. sneed is a director of airgas inc. and charles schwab corporation. david p. steiner joined our board of directors in june 2007, immediately following our separation from tyco international. since march 2004, mr. steiner has served as chief executive officer and a director of waste management, inc., a provider of integrated waste management services. his previous positions at waste management included executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2003 to 2004, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from 2001 to 2003 and vice president and deputy general counsel from 2000 to 2001. mr. steiner received a bachelor's degree from louisiana state university and a law degree from the university of california, los angeles. john c. van scoter joined our board of directors on december 1, 2008. mr. van scoter has served as senior vice president of texas instruments incorporated, a global semiconductor company, since 2005. during his 25 year career at texas instruments, he also served as general manager of the digital light processing (dlp&reg;) products and digital signal processor applications divisions, manager of application specific integrated circuit (asic) product development and engineering, product engineer and technical sales engineer. mr. van scoter holds a bachelor of science degree in engineering from the university of vermont. sandra s. wijnberg joined our board of directors in june 2007. ms. wijnberg has served as chief administrative officer of aquiline holdings llc, a new york based investment firm specializing in financial services, since march 2007. until april 2006, ms. wijnberg was the senior vice president and chief financial officer at marsh &amp; mclennan companies, inc., a professional services firm with insurance and reinsurance brokerage, consulting and investment management businesses. before joining marsh &amp; mclennan companies, inc. in january 2000, ms. wijnberg served as senior vice president and treasurer of tricon global restaurants, inc. and held various positions at pepsico, inc., morgan stanley group, inc. and american express company. ms. wijnberg is a graduate of the university of california, los angeles and received an mba from the university of southern california. ms. wijnberg is a director of tyco international ltd. mario calastri has been senior vice president and treasurer of tyco electronics since our separation from tyco international in june 2007 and he served on the tyco electronics board prior to the separation. he was vice president and assistant treasurer of tyco international between 2005 and june 2007. prior to joining tyco international, mr. calastri was vice president, finance and planning for ibm global financing emea in 2004 and assistant treasurer of ibm corporation from 1999 to 2003. alan c. clarke has been president of network solutions of tyco electronics since september 2006 and served as a vice president of tyco electronics since 1999. prior to that, mr. clarke worked for 71 raychem corporation, which was acquired by tyco international in 1999, for 17 years in various senior management positions. terrence r. curtin has been executive vice president and chief financial officer of tyco electronics since october 2006 and he served on the tyco electronics board prior to the separation. mr. curtin previously served as vice president and corporate controller since 2001. prior to joining tyco electronics, mr. curtin worked for arthur andersen llp. joseph b. donahue has been president, automotive division, for tyco electronics since july 2008 and was senior vice president from august 2007 until then. from 2006 to august 2007, he was group vice president, woodcoatings division for valspar corporation, a manufacturer of commercial and industrial coating. over the prior 16 years, mr. donahue held a variety of senior management roles at tyco electronics and amp incorporated, leading the north america automotive business from 2001 to 2006. charles p. dougherty has been president of wireless systems of tyco electronics since october 2006. prior to joining tyco electronics, mr. dougherty was at motorola where he served as corporate vice president and general manager, voice and data solutions from july 2004, vice president and general manager ip solutions from june 2001 to july 2004, and vice president and general manager north american volp solutions from july 2000 to june 2001. jane a. leipold has been senior vice president, global human resources for tyco electronics since 2006. she has a total of 27 years of tyco electronics and amp incorporated experience and has held various human resources, purchasing and engineering positions. minoru okamoto has been president, communications &amp; industrial solutions of tyco electronics since november 2008. previously, he was president, communications, computer and consumer electronics ("cc&amp;ce") from july 2008 and was vice president of cc&amp;ce since march 2001. he has a total of 33 years of tyco electronics and amp incorporated experience and has held a variety of positions covering sales, marketing, operations and general management. robert j. ott has been senior vice president and corporate controller of tyco electronics since our separation from tyco international in june 2007. prior to that, he was vice president, corporate audit of tyco international from march 2003 to june 2007 and vice president of finance-corporate governance of tyco international from august 2002 until march 2003. prior to joining tyco international, mr. ott was chief financial officer of multiplex, inc. from 2001 to 2002 and chief financial officer of sourcealliance, inc. from 2000 to 2001. jeffrey g. rea joined tyco electronics in december 2008 and has been president of the specialty products businesses since january 1, 2009. prior to joining tyco electronics, mr. rea was senior vice president, jm building products group for johns mansville, a berkshire hathaway company, from 2002. prior to 2002, mr. rea held various leadership positions with general electric company where he began his career in 1987. eric j. resch has been senior vice president and tax officer of tyco electronics since our separation from tyco international in june 2007 and he served on the tyco electronics board prior to the separation. he was vice president, tax reporting of tyco international from 2003 until june 2007. prior to joining tyco international, mr. resch was director, tax reporting for united technologies corporation from 2001 to 2003. robert a. scott has been executive vice president and general counsel of tyco electronics since 2006 and prior to that was senior vice president, corporate planning for tyco international from january 2006 and vice president of strategy and business planning for engineered products and services from may 2004 to january 2006. he also served on the tyco electronics board prior to our separation from tyco international in june 2007. prior to joining tyco international, mr. scott was 72 senior vice president and chief of staff of motorola's integrated electronics sector during 2002 and 2003 and motorola's senior vice president of business integration in 2001. prior to joining motorola, mr. scott was senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of general instrument corporation. joan e. wainwright has been senior vice president, marketing and communications at tyco electronics since february 2008, and she previously was senior vice president, communications and public affairs since joining us in june 2006. previously, she served as vice president, public affairs and vice president, corporate communications for merck &amp; co., inc. from june 2000 to june 2006. ms. wainwright also served as deputy commissioner of communications for the u.s. social security administration and in the communications and public relations departments of the university health system of new jersey, the children's hospital of philadelphia, the university of delaware and villanova university. section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance section 16(a) of the exchange act requires tyco electronics' executive officers and directors and persons who beneficially own more than ten percent of tyco electronics' common shares to file electronically reports of ownership and changes in ownership of such common shares with the sec and nyse. these persons are required by sec regulations to furnish tyco electronics with copies of all section 16(a) forms they file. as a matter of practice, tyco electronics' administrative staff assists tyco electronics' executive officers and directors in preparing initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership and files those reports on their behalf. based on tyco electronics' review of such forms, as well as information provided and representations made by the reporting persons, tyco electronics believes that all of its executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of more than ten percent of its common shares complied with the reporting requirements of section 16(a) during tyco electronics' fiscal year ended september 26, 2008, other than three late form 4 filings made by each of directors lawrence s. smith and paula a. sneed, reporting one transaction on each form. code of ethics we have adopted the tyco electronics guide to ethical conduct, which applies to all employees, officers, and directors of tyco electronics. our guide to ethical conduct meets the requirements of a "code of ethics" as defined by item 406 of regulation s-k and applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and chief accounting officer, as well as all other employees and directors, as indicated above. our guide to ethical conduct also meets the requirements of a code of business conduct and ethics under the listing standards of the nyse. our guide to ethical conduct is posted on our website at www.tycoelectronics.com under the heading "who we are quick links guide to ethical conduct." we also will provide a copy of our guide to ethical conduct to shareholders upon request. we intend to disclose any amendments to our guide to ethical conduct, as well as any waivers for executive officers or directors, on our website. audit committee of the board of directors tyco electronics' audit committee is comprised of lawrence smith, who chairs the committee since january 14, 2009, pierre brondeau, paula sneed and sandra wijnberg. during fiscal year 2008, sandra wijnberg was chair of the committee and continued in that role through january 13, 2009. the board of directors has determined that each of mr. smith and ms. wijnberg is an "audit committee financial expert," as defined under sec rules. the audit committee primarily is concerned with the quality and integrity of the company's annual and quarterly financial statements, including its financial and accounting principles, policies and practices, and its internal control over financial reporting; the qualifications, independence and performance of the company's independent auditor and lead audit partner; review and oversight of the company's internal audit function; compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; review of financial and accounting risk exposure; and procedures for handling complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters. the committee also oversees the company ombudsman and the company's guide to ethical conduct. 73 item 11. executive compensation compensation discussion and analysis our fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 ("fiscal year 2008") was the first full fiscal year of operation for tyco electronics ltd. ("tyco electronics" or the "company"), as the company's separation from tyco international was completed on june 29, 2007. as discussed in our compensation discussion and analysis ("cd&amp;a") for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 ("fiscal year 2007"), the management development and compensation committee ("mdcc" or "committee") adopted an executive compensation philosophy shortly after separation to serve as the company's guiding principles in the development of executive compensation levels and programs. in addition, the committee put into place a disciplined process for the adoption of executive compensation actions, which includes board approval of executive compensation actions for the chief executive officer and committee approval of compensation actions for all other executive officers. all compensation actions are to be reviewed for alignment with the company's executive compensation policy and in light of competitive market data (the committee reviews competitive data from two separate peer groups), and with reliance on a compensation consultant (who is independent from management) for advice, information and an objective point of view. in light of the limited period in which the company operated as a public company in fiscal year 2007, neither company management nor the committee had the opportunity to complete a comprehensive review of the company's executive pay levels and programs. in fiscal year 2008, however, we had the opportunity to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the competitive position of our executive pay levels and compensation programs. overall, we believe that our executive pay levels and compensation programs are competitive relative to our peer companies and that the executive pay actions taken in fiscal year 2008 better align our executive pay levels and compensation programs with our executive compensation philosophy. in fiscal year 2008, we: confirmed the structure of our overall compensation program for our executive officers as one that relies heavily on performance through the use of annual and long-term incentive programs awarded base salary increases and set annual and long-term incentive targets for executive officers at levels that are aligned with the competitive market emphasized equity (in the form of long-term incentive awards granted primarily in the form of stock options) as the primary component of long-term compensation for our executive officers, ensuring that pay opportunities are linked to shareholder return and maximize share ownership by our executive officers we are still in the early stages of the implementation of our executive compensation philosophy, but we believe that with the actions taken in fiscal year 2008, we have made significant progress in aligning our executive pay levels and compensation programs with our executive compensation philosophy. executive compensation philosophy our executive compensation philosophy is designed to deliver competitive total compensation, upon the achievement of individual and/or corporate performance objectives, which will attract, motivate and retain leaders who will drive the creation of shareholder value. the executive compensation philosophy has also been designed to align with the company's organization-wide total rewards strategy. the committee reviews and administers the company's compensation and benefit programs for executive officers, including the named executive officers. (for purposes of this cd&amp;a, "executive officer" means the chief executive officer, his direct reports and any other executive 74 officers of the company subject to section 16 of the exchange act.) in determining total compensation, the committee considers the following key objectives and attributes: shareholder alignment executive compensation programs will be designed to create shareholder value. long-term incentive awards, which make up a significant percentage of our executives' total compensation, will closely align the interests of executives with the long-term interest of our shareholders. performance based many components of our executive compensation package are linked to performance. annual cash incentive awards are tied to overall corporate, segment or business unit measures that allow for differentiation among our highest and lowest performing business units. long-term incentive awards, granted primarily in the form of stock options, are designed to reward our executive officers for the creation of long-term shareholder value. competitive with external talent markets our executive compensation programs are designed to be competitive within the various talent markets in which the company competes for executive talent. compensation programs are designed with reference to both a general peer group of companies that compete with us for executive talent and an electronics industry peer group. focus on executive stock ownership the company has adopted the tyco electronics share ownership and retention requirement plan which, together with long-term equity awards, drives executive stock ownership. simple and transparent our executive compensation programs are designed to be readily understood by our executives and transparent to our investors. role of the management development &amp; compensation committee the mdcc administers the company's compensation policies and programs for executive officers, including the named executive officers. the committee reviews, analyzes and approves the design of the company's executive compensation policies and programs, administers the company's stock incentive plans (including reviewing and approving equity incentive awards for executive officers) and reviews and approves all compensation decisions relating to the named executive officers and other executive officers of the company. the committee is comprised exclusively of members who meet the independence requirements of the nyse. each mdcc member is also a "non-employee director" for purposes of rule 16b-3 of the exchange act and an "outside director" for purposes of section 162(m) of the internal revenue code. role of management the mdcc has established a process with management to support the development and review of executive officer compensation, as described below. chief executive officer compensation the mdcc will make recommendations to the independent members of the board regarding chief executive officer compensation actions. the recommendations will be based on factors deemed appropriate by the committee, including chief executive officer performance and competitive market data provided by the committee's independent compensation consultant. the mdcc will discuss and evaluate chief executive officer compensation recommendations in an executive session attended only by the committee members, its independent compensation consultant, and the senior vice president global human resources, who attends primarily to provide contextual information. the chief executive officer will not attend the executive session when chief executive officer compensation actions are discussed. the mdcc does not anticipate that management will have any role in the 75 development of chief executive officer compensation except for providing to the mdcc or the committee's independent compensation consultant relevant data relating to the chief executive officer's performance and compensation history. other named executive officer compensation the chief executive officer will make recommendations to the mdcc relating to compensation actions for the other executive officers. the recommendations will be made based on each executive officer's performance, as assessed by the chief executive officer, competitive market data provided by the committee's independent compensation consultant and other factors deemed relevant by the chief executive officer, including but not limited to internal pay equity, relative importance of the role of each executive, experience level and prior compensation actions. the senior vice president, global human resources also will be present for the discussion of compensation actions for the other named executive officers. role of compensation consultant under its charter, the mdcc has the sole authority to retain consultants, counsel, accountants and others to assist it in the performance of its duties, including the evaluation of executive compensation levels and programs. the mdcc has engaged towers perrin to serve as the committee's compensation consultant. towers perrin reports directly to the mdcc and provides assistance to the committee in developing the company's executive compensation programs and executive pay levels and generally provides advice to the committee on executive compensation issues. the mdcc independently retained towers perrin and has the ability to terminate towers perrin's services at the committee's discretion. outside of the services performed for the mdcc, towers perrin provides no services to the company except with prior notification to the mdcc chair. the specific towers perrin consultants to the committee are precluded from any involvement in any work for management not expressly authorized by the mdcc. towers perrin performed the following services for the mdcc in fiscal year 2008: evaluated the competitive position of the company's executive officers' total compensation packages relative to the company's peer groups for purposes of assisting the mdcc in determining compensation actions for fiscal year 2008 and beyond provided advice to the committee in the establishment of annual and long-term incentive guidelines for executive officers provided ongoing advice as needed on the design of tyco electronics' annual and long-term cash and equity incentive programs, including the fiscal year 2008 annual grant and performance plan assisted with the development of competitive global long-term incentive grant guidelines for the company's global participant population, including both executives and non-executives briefed the mdcc on executive compensation trends among the company's peer groups provided advice to the mdcc and nominating, governance and compliance committee on director compensation levels provided advice to the mdcc on the chief executive officer's compensation 76 executive compensation benchmarks for purposes of benchmarking market practices on compensation levels for senior executives, the company has adopted a peer group framework that includes the use of a primary talent market peer group and a secondary reference group. the primary talent market peer group is comprised of companies across a range of industries in which tyco electronics competes for executive talent as opposed to being limited to companies only in the electronics industry. since tyco electronics typically competes for executive talent with companies in industries other than the electronics industry, the company and committee believe that it is appropriate to establish a benchmark peer group that sufficiently covers companies in those industries. the industries included in the primary talent market peer group are aerospace and defense, electronics and scientific equipment and industrial manufacturing. the primary talent market peer group consists of approximately 90 companies, listed in this cd&amp;a under " primary talent market peer group," with revenues ranging from $350 million to $170 billion. data obtained from this group is adjusted to reflect the relative size of tyco electronics within the group. the secondary reference group is comprised of companies within the electronics industry. we use the secondary reference group as a benchmark to identify any differences in compensation practices between our industry peers and the broader primary talent market peer companies. as shown below, there are currently 16 companies in the secondary industry reference group with revenues ranging from $2.8 billion to $36.6 billion, with a median of $10 billion. 3m company agilent technologies, inc. amphenol corporation cooper industries, ltd. corning incorporated danaher corporation emc corporation emerson electric co. general dynamics corporation harris corporation honeywell international inc. itt corporation johnson controls, inc. molex incorporated motorola, inc. qualcomm incorporated the benchmark data is compiled by the committee's consultant and is used by the mdcc as a reference to ensure that our compensation levels and programs are competitive with the compensation paid by the companies that may compete with tyco electronics for executive talent. as explained below, the benchmark data is just one of the factors that are used in setting executive compensation levels. tax deductibility of executive compensation in evaluating compensation programs covering our executive officers, the committee considers the potential impact on the company of internal revenue code section 162(m). the committee generally intends to maximize deductibility of compensation under section 162(m) to the extent consistent with our overall compensation program objectives, while also maintaining maximum flexibility in the design of our compensation programs and in making appropriate payments to executive officers. however, the committee reserves the right to use its independent judgment to approve nondeductible compensation, while taking into account the financial effects such action may have on the company. section 162(m) limits the tax deduction available to public companies for annual compensation that is paid to certain of the company's executive officers in excess of $1 million, unless the compensation qualifies as performance-based or is otherwise exempt from section 162(m). annual incentive bonuses, stock options and other performance based awards made to executive officers under the company's 2007 stock and incentive plan are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation exemption under section 162(m). 77 compensation overview process the company's total compensation package for executive officers, including named executive officers, is currently comprised of the following elements: base salary annual cash incentives long-term equity incentives executive benefits and perquisites broad-based retirement and health and welfare benefits as a general rule, the mdcc has set the 50th percentile of our primary talent market peer group as the benchmark for an executive's total compensation. the components of an executive's total compensation, base pay and annual and long-term incentive awards, also are benchmarked at the 50th percentile of our primary talent market peer group. after the benchmark is determined for each executive position, the mdcc takes other factors into consideration in establishing the executive's compensation level. those factors can include: differences in the executive's responsibilities versus the benchmark role; internal pay equity and relative importance of the executive's role with the company; individual performance and contributions to strategic initiatives; level of experience; and compensation history. thus, the actual pay positioning for each executive officer may be below or above the 50th percentile benchmark for total compensation and/or for one or more of the component elements of total compensation. in addition, in order to attract and retain highly qualified external candidates to fill critical management roles, the mdcc may approve total compensation packages and/or individual compensation components that are above the 50th percentile benchmark levels for that candidate's position. annual and long-term incentive awards also are structured with the potential to deliver significantly higher payouts (above the established target level for each executive officer) as an incentive to drive the short and long-term strategies of the company and increase shareholder value. similarly, the awards are structured to deliver substantially lower payouts (below the target level for each executive officer) for performance that falls below expectations. executive officers in the united states receive limited perquisites (as described below) and perquisites outside the u.s. are based on local market practice. broad-based employee benefit programs are provided to executive officers on the same basis as all other employees. in order to assist it in setting executive compensation levels, the mdcc conducts a comprehensive assessment of total compensation at least annually, with the assistance of its compensation consultant. the assessment is completed for each executive officer and analyzes current base salary, target annual incentive opportunity, target long-term incentive opportunity, target total cash compensation (base salary and target incentive), and total direct compensation (base salary, target annual incentive opportunity and target long-term incentive opportunity) in light of current market practice, which includes comparative data from the company's primary talent market peer group. in addition to the total compensation assessment, the committee utilizes tally sheets that are assembled for each executive officer, showing the officer's compensation history, work history and educational credentials, job responsibilities and tenure with the company. the tally sheets enable the mdcc to understand how changes in one element of an executive officer's compensation could impact the value of other elements of the executive officer's compensation. with the information provided in the total compensation assessment and tally sheets as a reference, and with the input of its compensation consultant and the chief executive officer (with respect to actions taken for the other executive officers), the committee will make executive 78 compensation determinations for our executive officers based on the competitive market position and other factors discussed above. the committee and board will follow a similar process in making determinations regarding the chief executive officer's compensation. differences in compensation levels between our executive officers are largely driven by our objective to align each executive's compensation with 50th-percentile market compensation practices specific to the executive's role. as 50th-percentile market compensation practices vary for the roles held by our executive officers, there are differences in their compensation levels. additionally, the factors described above (such as differences in the executive's responsibilities versus the benchmark role, internal pay equity and relative importance of the executive's role with the company, individual performance and contributions to strategic initiatives, level of experience and compensation history) will also drive differences in compensation levels of our executive officers. an executive officer's compensation can change materially from year to year based on company performance, individual performance, or a role change, including promotion. in march 2008, the committee, with the assistance of its compensation consultant, conducted a preliminary compensation assessment to determine the competitive position of each executive officer's base salary, annual incentive target, total cash compensation, long-term incentive value (based on the annualized value of the july 2, 2007 founders' grant awards) and total direct compensation relative to the company's primary and secondary peer groups. the purpose of the march compensation assessment was to provide relevant information to the committee for determining base salary adjustments for a group of executive officers, including named executive officers. the committee was also provided tally sheets for the executive officers. based on the data provided in the competitive assessment, and in consideration of other factors deemed relevant by the committee, base salary increases were approved for a number of executive officers, including named executive officers (as described below), effective in april 2008. with the base salary increases that were approved, the base salary levels for our named executive officers range from 25% below to 6% above the 50th percentile peer group base salary benchmarks. in july 2008, the committee, with the assistance of its compensation consultant, updated and reviewed the march 2008 competitive compensation assessment. the updated competitive assessment covered each executive officer's current base salary, target annual incentive for fiscal year 2008, total cash compensation, long-term incentive value (based on the annualized value of the july 2, 2007 founders' grant awards) and total compensation, and indicated the competitive position of each compensation element and total compensation level relative to the primary talent market peer group benchmarks. the competitive assessment indicated that the compensation levels for our executive officers, including our named executive officers, fell both below and above the 50th percentile of the primary talent market peer group benchmarks. the committee reviewed the compensation levels for each executive officer in light of the relevant factors discussed above such as the executive's level of experience, the additional responsibilities of a particular executive's role versus the benchmark, individual performance considerations and the executive's compensation history and determined that the compensation levels were reasonable and consistent with our executive compensation philosophy. the results of the july 2008 competitive compensation assessment assisted the committee in determining whether to make base salary pay adjustments effective in january 2009 (none were made) and in setting annual and long-term incentive targets for the executive officer group for fiscal year 2009. 79 elements of compensation base salary base salary provides a fixed compensation for the performance of the executive's core duties and responsibilities. the base salary levels for tyco electronics' executive officers, including the named executive officers, were initially established by tyco international prior to separation and were not changed during the remainder of fiscal year 2007. based on the competitive data in the march 2008 compensation assessment and in consideration of the date of the most recent base salary increase and other factors, as described below, the committee approved base salary increases for a number of named executive officers, including mr. scott, mr. curtin, mr. clarke, mr. okamoto and ms. leipold, effective april 1, 2008. the committee approved a base salary increase for mr. scott from $500,000 to $525,000, representing an annualized increase of approximately 5.0% since his last base salary adjustment, which was effective january 1, 2007. the committee approved the increase after considering the peer group market data and the base salary levels of our chief financial officer and other executive officers. the committee approved a base salary increase for mr. curtin from $475,000 to $505,875, representing an annualized increase of approximately 6.5% since his last base salary adjustment, which was effective january 1, 2007. the committee approved the increase after considering the peer group market data and the base salary levels of our general counsel and other executive officers. the committee approved a base salary increase for mr. clarke from &pound;241,500 to &pound;253,500, representing an annualized increase of approximately 5.0% since his last base salary adjustment, which was effective october 1, 2006. the committee approved the increase after considering the peer group market data and the base salary levels of our other business unit presidents. the committee approved a base salary increase for mr. okamoto from &yen;52,595,920 to &yen;54,700,000, representing an annualized increase of 4.0% since his last base salary adjustment, which was effective october 1, 2006. the committee approved the increase after considering the peer group market data and the base salary levels of our other business unit presidents. the committee approved a base salary increase for ms. leipold from $385,000 to $404,250, representing an annualized increase of approximately 5.0% since her last base salary adjustment, which was effective january 1, 2007. the committee approved the increase after considering the peer group market data and the base salary levels of our other executive officers. mr. lynch did not receive a base salary increase in fiscal year 2008 or in fiscal year 2009 through the date of filing of this annual report. annual incentive awards annual incentive awards provide executive officers with a bonus opportunity if certain financial performance goals are achieved. the annual incentive program is intended to reward executive officers upon the achievement of financial performance goals (at the corporate, segment and/or business unit level), with some limited discretion applied for individual performance. the mdcc intends the company's annual incentive award program to provide market competitive awards targeted at the 50th percentile relative to peer companies for performance achieved at the predetermined target levels. award opportunities above the 50th percentile will be available to the extent that performance exceeds the predetermined target levels. payments at levels below the 50th percentile will be awarded to the extent that performance is below the performance target levels. no annual incentive payments will be made if threshold performance levels are not achieved, absent the occurrence of extenuating circumstances that, in the discretion of the committee, merit an exception to the threshold performance requirement. 80 the annual incentive awards will typically be structured as cash payments. within 90 days of the start of each fiscal year, the committee will establish the applicable performance criteria, which will include minimum performance thresholds required to earn an award, target performance goals required to earn a payment of 100%, and a maximum performance level required to earn the maximum bonus permitted. if the company attains the established financial goals, executive officers will receive an award based on a target bonus percentage which will be set at the beginning of each fiscal year and expressed as a percentage of the executive's base salary. incentive target bonus percentages for executive officers generally range from 50% to 100% of base salary. the target bonus percentages for our named officers for fiscal year 2008 were as follows: mr. lynch 100%; mr. scott 75%; mr. curtin 75%; mr. clarke 75%; mr. okamoto 75%; and ms. leipold 65%. the target bonus percentages fell within a range of 20% below to 7% above the 50th percentile primary market group benchmarks. for fiscal year 2008, the company established the following financial measures for the annual incentive award program: corporate level: measure weighting earnings per share ("eps") 60 % return on invested capital ("roic") 30 % key performance indicator ("kpi") 10 % business unit level overall award based 80% on business unit performance (described below) and 20% on corporate level results (described above) measure weighting business unit operating income ("oi") 60 % business unit roic 30 % business unit kpi 10 % for purposes of the annual incentive award program, eps, oi and roic are adjusted financial measures that exclude the effects of events deemed not reflective of the actual performance of the eligible participants. for fiscal year 2008, the categories of adjustments included the elimination of the effects of (i) business disposals, (ii) pre-separation tax matters, (iii) charges and income related to former management or shareholder litigation, (iv) land sales, and (v) restructuring and asset impairment charges. the kpi is an additional measure specifically designed for the company and each business unit to emphasize an important initiative. the corporate level kpi for fiscal year 2008 was operating income percentage and the kpi for the business units was either operating income percentage or organic sales growth. organic sales growth is our reported net sales growth as adjusted for the impact from foreign exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. as noted above, business unit awards were based 80% on the attainment of the business unit performance measures and 20% on the corporate level results in order to drive cross-business collaboration. the minimum threshold performance required to earn an annual incentive award for each established performance measure was set at 90%, with maximum payout for each performance measure set at attainment of 110% of such measure. actual awards could have ranged from 0% (for performance below the threshold level) to 200% (for performance at or over the maximum performance level) of an incentive bonus target. 81 for the fiscal year 2008 annual incentive award program, the committee reserved the discretion to adjust individual or business unit award amounts upward or downward by up to 25% based on its subjective evaluation of the individual or business unit performance during the fiscal year. however, any discretionary adjustments were required to net out to zero. in addition, the committee granted the chief executive officer a discretionary award pool of $6.5 million (10% of the target aip pool amount) to make additional annual incentive awards as deemed appropriate in his discretion. fiscal year 2008 performance targets, actual attainment and corresponding annual incentive award results at the corporate level and for the communications, computer &amp; consumer electronics and network solutions business units (for mr. okamoto and mr. clarke, respectively) were as follows: corporate level: messrs. lynch, scott, curtin and ms. leipold performance measure target range results performance % to target bonus score eps (60%) $2.21 $2.28 $ 2.43 108.2 % 178.95 % roic (30%) 10.4% 11.5 % 110.6 % 210 % kpi oi% (10%) 14.1% 13.7 % 97.2 % 85.7 % corporate level earned award: 178.9% cc&amp;ce: mr. okamoto performance measure target range results performance % to target bonus score oi (48%) $531.3 $547.7m $ 472.9m 87.7 % 0.0 % roic (24%) 11.2% 9.5 % 84.8 % 0.0 % kpi oi% (8%) 16.7% 15.0 % 89.8 % 0.0 % cc&amp;ce earned award, including 20% attributable to corporate level results (178.9%): 35.8% network solutions: mr. clarke performance measure target range results performance % to target bonus score oi (48%) $339.5 $350.0m $ 306.4m 88.9 % 0.0 % roic (24%) 12.8% 10.7 % 83.6 % 0.0 % kpi organic sales (8%) 7.2% 6.3 % 87.5 % 55.0 % network solutions weighted score: 5.5% network solutions earned award, including 20% attributed to corporate level results (178.9%): 40.2% once the bonus scores were calculated, adjustments were made to arrive at the final bonus payout for each named executive officer, as follows: the corporate level bonus score was adjusted downward to a rating of 150% (from 178.9%) to more appropriately reflect the overall business performance in fiscal year 2008. as a result, messrs. lynch, scott and curtin and ms. leipold were awarded annual incentive payments equal to 150% of their respective annual incentive program targets. the cc&amp;ce bonus score was adjusted upward to a rating of 44.7% (from 35.8%) to recognize the business unit's solid performance in a weak economy, its leadership in the company's talent sharing process and productivity/teoa (tyco electronics operational advantage) programs, its efficiency in operational portfolio cleanup, and its market share gains with key customers. as a 82 result, mr. okamoto was awarded an annual incentive payment equal to 44.7% of his annual incentive plan target. mr. clarke's bonus score was adjusted upward to a rating of 50.2% (from 40.2%) to recognize mr. clarke's contribution to corporate-wide initiatives including the development of the eastern europe and india markets and his executive sponsorship of the tyco electronics operations council. the adjustments were made based on the committee's authority to adjust annual incentive awards upward or downward by 25% (as described above). the chief executive officer did not award any amounts from the $6.5 million discretionary pool (as described above). long-term incentive awards the mdcc intends to use long-term incentive awards in the form of stock options, restricted stock units and other forms of equity and/or cash to deliver competitive compensation that recognizes employees for their contributions to the company and aligns executive officers with shareholders in focusing on long-term growth and stock performance. as part of the company's compensation philosophy, the mdcc concluded that annual grants of long-term incentive awards to executive officers typically should be targeted at the 50th percentile relative to our primary talent market peer group, but should have the ability to deliver compensation at the high end of the market for superior performance and at the low end of the market for weak performance. the company does not have a rigid policy for the allocation of long-term equity incentive awards among the different forms of equity. however, consistent with its policy that a majority of an executive officer's compensation be performance-based, long-term equity incentive awards for executive officers will be weighted primarily in the form of stock options or some other form of performance-based award. the committee intends that long-term equity incentive awards will be granted on an annual basis, typically in the first fiscal quarter of each year. in general, the factors used to determine the number of shares subject to long-term incentive equity awards in any year will include (i) target grant ranges based on competitive data from our benchmark companies, (ii) the company's stock price, (iii) the mix of stock options and full value shares to be granted, (iv) total share utilization and dilution, (v) the incentive and retentive value deemed appropriate for the grant, (vi) prior grant history, and (vii) anticipated equity-related expense. (as discussed above, the committee set fiscal year 2009 long-term incentive target ranges based on the july 2008 competitive compensation assessment.) as discussed in our fiscal year 2007 cd&amp;a, the company issued a founders' grant to executive officers and other employees on july 2, 2007 that consisted of a mix of stock options and restricted stock units. (executive officers received an award mix of 75% stock options and 25% restricted stock units.) the founders' grant award values were designed to cover eighteen months (as the committee did not intend to issue another broad-based long-term equity grant until the company's 2009 fiscal year), plus an additional one-time award to executive officers and other employees to recognize their contributions during the separation process. thus, the values of the founders' grant awards were set between the 50th and 75th percentiles of primary market group benchmarks. consistent with the committee's intent when granting the founders' grant awards, no long-term equity incentive awards were granted to executive officers in fiscal year 2008. in november 2008, fiscal year 2009 annual long-term equity incentive awards were granted to executive officers and other employees. (these equity awards are not reflected in the summary compensation table because they were granted in fiscal year 2009.) to support our philosophy that long-term incentive awards be performance based and be designed to reward the creation of shareholder value, the fiscal year 2009 long-term equity incentive awards for executive officers were made in the form of stock options (70%) and restricted stock unit awards (30%). the grant values were based on the long-term equity incentive ranges adopted by the committee in july 2008, as 83 discussed above. for purposes of establishing the long-term incentive ranges, the committee grouped executives together (except for mr. lynch) based on an evaluation of the importance of each executive's role to the organization and a review of competitive market data. roles were grouped accordingly and ranges established based on the market data. for example, messrs. scott and curtin were grouped together reflecting their large functional roles. messrs. okamoto and clarke were grouped together with other executives leading large business units. ms. leipold was grouped together with other similarly-situated corporate level executives. all grants made to the executive officers, except for mr. lynch, were within the ranges established for each executive group. mr. lynch's fiscal year 2009 annual long-term equity incentive grant was based on competitive market data and was set at the 50th percentile of his primary market group benchmark. pay mix we do not have a specific policy with respect to the allocation between fixed versus performance-based compensation or annual versus long-term compensation. our mix is largely driven by our practice of basing each element of compensation on market 50th-percentile practices. however, management and the mdcc periodically review our mix in relation to market and in relation to our desired objective of providing the majority of our named executive officers' compensation through performance-based components. the following table shows our mix of fixed compensation versus performance-based compensation and annual versus long-term compensation, based on the data shown in the summary compensation table. as indicated by the table below, our actual mix is consistent with our objective to deliver the majority of executive compensation through long-term equity incentives. base salary long-term incentives non-equity incentive other compensation lynch 12.5 % 66.4 % 18.7 % 2.4 % curtin 23.4 % 44.6 % 27.1 % 4.8 % scott 23.2 % 43.5 % 26.7 % 6.6 % okamoto 24.3 % 59.2 % 8.3 % 8.2 % clarke 29.2 % 57.9 % 11.3 % 1.6 % leipold 22.1 % 49.4 % 22.1 % 6.3 % retirement and deferred compensation benefits the company maintains various retirement plans to assist our executive officers with retirement income planning and increase the attractiveness of employment with the company. the company provides a defined contribution plan, the tyco electronics retirement savings and investment plan ("rsip"), that is available to all eligible united states employees, and a nonqualified supplemental retirement plan, the tyco electronics supplemental savings and retirement plan ("ssrp"), in which executive officers may participate. under the rsip, the company match level is based on years of service, as follows: years of service employee contribution* company contribution* 0 9 1 % 5 % 10 19 2 % 6 % 20 24 3 % 7 % 25 29 4 % 8 % 30 or more 5 % 9 % * represents the percentage of the employee's compensation, which for purposes of the rsip, generally includes base salary and annual incentive awards paid to the employee. 84 company contributions for the named executive officers are shown in the "all other compensation" column of the summary compensation table and the related table of all other compensation that follow this cd&amp;a. executive officers are fully vested in company matching contributions upon completion of three years of vesting service under the rsip and ssrp. under the ssrp, executive officers may defer up to 50% of their base salary and 100% of their annual incentive awards. the company provides matching contributions to the ssrp based on the executive officer's deferred base salary and annual incentive awards at the same rate such officer is eligible to receive matching contributions under the rsip and on any cash compensation (i.e., base salary and annual incentive awards) the executive officer earns that year in excess of internal revenue service limits. this plan was filed as an exhibit to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k filed with the securities and exchange commission on november 9, 2007. all of the company's u.s. retirement, deferred compensation, incentive and other executive and broad-based plans are intended to comply with section 409a of the internal revenue code. mr. okamoto is eligible to receive retirement benefits under the directors' retirement allowance regulation, a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the company in japan. mr. okamoto is entitled to receive either a single lump sum payment or a monthly life annuity commencing at normal retirement age 60, or upon earlier retirement after age 50 with 15 years of service. annuities for retirement after age 60 are payable for mr. okamoto's lifetime, with ten years guaranteed. annuities for earlier retirement are payable for ten years only. the lump sum is based upon the product of specified plan factors that vary by service, multiplied by the average annual pensionable salary during the ten-year period prior to termination. this amount is offset by the employee retirement lump sum previously received and increased at a specified interest rate. death benefits will be paid to the survivor for a ten-year period upon the death of the individual who attained age 50 and 15 years of service. projected pension benefits for mr. okamoto are disclosed in the pension benefits table that follows this cd&amp;a. dr. gromer participated in a defined benefit pension plan established by the company for the benefit of its german employees. dr. gromer retired from active employment on december 31, 2007 and elected to commence his pension benefit on april 1, 2008. dr. gromer is receiving a monthly benefit of 46,183 &euro;, which will be payable for the remainder of his life. welfare benefits we provide welfare benefits to executive officers on the same basis as all other employees. these arrangements include medical, dental, life insurance and disability coverage and are offered to all our eligible u.s.-based employees. the various benefit plans are part of our overall total compensation offering and are intended to be competitive with peer companies. outside of the united states, the company provides welfare benefits based on local country practices. perquisites the company's perquisite program provides for the payment to u.s. executive officers of a cash allowance equal to an additional ten percent (10%) of base salary, in lieu of perquisites typically provided by other companies. the executive is permitted to apply the allowance as he or she deems appropriate. other than the allowance, there are no perquisites provided to u.s. executive officers. outside of the united states, perquisite benefits are paid to executive officers based on local country practice. (see the summary compensation table that follows this cd&amp;a for more information on the perquisite benefits paid to our non-u.s. named executive officers.) 85 change in control and termination payments the company maintains the tyco electronics severance plan for u.s. officers and executives ("severance plan") and the tyco electronics change in control severance plan for certain u.s. officers and executives ("cic plan"). these plans were filed as exhibits to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k filed with the securities and exchange commission on november 9, 2007. the company believes that the maintenance of severance and change in control benefits is appropriate in order to attract and retain executive talent (given the fact that such benefits are standard benefits provided by peer companies), to avoid costly and potentially protracted separation negotiations, to ensure continuity of management in the event of an actual or threatened change in control and to protect our executive officers' investment in the company. the committee performed a competitive analysis of both plans when they were adopted in fiscal year 2007 and determined that the benefits provided under both plans were standard in the marketplace. under the company's severance plan, benefits are payable to an executive officer only upon an involuntary termination of employment for any reason other than cause, permanent disability or death, and are conditioned upon the executive officer executing a release (including confidentiality, one year non-competition, two year non-solicitation and non-disparagement covenants) in favor of the company. under the severance plan, an eligible executive will be paid cash severance upon termination of employment equal to: two times base salary plus two times target bonus for the chief executive officer, one and one-half times base salary plus one and one-half times target bonus for section 16 officers who are direct reports to the chief executive officer, and one times base salary plus one times target bonus for other section 16 officers and executives classified as band 1 or band 2 employees. cash severance payments are made in monthly installments. in addition, the terminated executive will be eligible to receive a pro rata annual incentive payment for the year in which the termination occurs and continued health and welfare benefits for the length of the severance period. the severance plan does not provide any special treatment for outstanding equity awards. the severance benefits provided under the severance plan, including the cash severance multiples, were set by the committee at levels deemed consistent with market practice. "cause" is defined as substantial failure or refusal to perform duties and responsibilities of the executive's job, violation of fiduciary duty, conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, dishonesty, theft, violation of our rules or policies, or other egregious conduct that has or could have a serious and detrimental impact on tyco electronics and its employees. severance benefits for non-u.s. executives will generally be based on local statutory requirements. the company's cic plan incorporates a "double trigger" concept before benefits become payable. in other words, benefits are payable to an executive officer under the cic plan only upon an involuntary termination of employment by the company or "good reason resignation" that occurs during a period shortly before and continuing after a change in control (a "qualifying termination") and are conditioned upon the executive officer executing a release (including confidentiality, non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disparagement covenants) in favor of the company. for purposes of the cic plan, "good reason resignation" generally means assignment of duties materially inconsistent with the executive's position, a material adverse change in the executive's position, company actions that would cause the executive to violate his or her ethical or professional obligations, relocation to a place of employment greater than 60 miles from the executive's current place of employment, a reduction in the executive's base salary or annual bonus, a reduction in the aggregate of the executive's benefits or failure by the company to have its obligations under the cic plan assumed by a successor. no benefits are payable under the cic plan if the executive officer is terminated for "cause." "cause" is defined as a violation of fiduciary duty, conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, dishonesty, theft or other egregious conduct likely to have a materially detrimental impact on tyco electronics and its employees. 86 under the cic plan, an eligible executive will be paid cash severance in the event of a qualifying termination equal to: three times base salary plus three times target bonus for the chief executive officer, two times base salary plus two times target bonus for section 16 officers who are direct reports to the chief executive officer, and one and one-half times base salary plus one and one-half times target bonus for other section 16 officers and band 1 employees. cash severance payments will be made in the form of a lump sum payment. in addition, the terminated executive will be eligible to receive a pro rata annual incentive payment for the year in which the termination occurs and continued health and welfare benefits for the length of the severance period (i.e., 36, 24 or 18 months). outstanding equity awards will become fully vested in the event of a qualifying termination. cash severance and other benefits payable as a result of a qualifying termination will be limited to the greater after-tax amount resulting from (i) payment of the full benefits provided under the cic plan and imposition of all taxes, including any applicable excise taxes under internal revenue code section 280g, or (ii) payment of the benefits capped at the section 280g limit with no excise tax imposed. benefits payable under the cic plan will not be grossed up for the imposition of section 280g or any other taxes. the severance benefits provided under the cic plan, including the cash severance multiples, were set by the committee at levels deemed consistent with market practice. retention agreement and consulting agreement with dr. gromer on march 22, 2006, dr. gromer and tyco international entered into a retention agreement providing dr. gromer with a monetary benefit equal to two times his annual base salary and target bonus in exchange for dr. gromer's continued service under his services agreement with tyco electronics logistics ag for a period of no less than two years following the separation. if dr. gromer's employment was terminated before the end of the two-year period for reasons other than cause or as a result of death or disability, he would still be eligible to receive the retention payment. however, the actual retention award dr. gromer was to receive was to be reduced by any severance, notice pay, termination indemnity or other similar amount paid by tyco international or tyco electronics as a result of any termination. on april 11, 2007, tyco international announced that dr. gromer would retire from tyco electronics on december 31, 2007. in accordance with the terms of a release and separation agreement among tyco electronics logistics ag, tyco electronics amp gmbh, tyco international and dr. gromer dated as of april 10, 2007, dr. gromer received a lump sum payment of 3,359,232 &euro; (usd 4,939,863 using a january 28, 2008 conversion ratio of 1.46860 usd to 1 &euro; for the amount of the payment paid out of germany, and january 29, 2008 conversion ratio of 1.47150 usd to 1 &euro; for the amount of the payment paid out of switzerland), representing 24 months' base salary and target bonus, in satisfaction of the obligations to dr. gromer under the march 22, 2006 retention agreement. the agreement restricts dr. gromer from soliciting tyco electronics' customers and employees and from competing with tyco electronics for a period of 24 months after his retirement on december 31, 2007. on january 15, 2008, the company entered into a consulting agreement with dr. gromer. the term of the consulting agreement began on january 15, 2008 and ended on december 31, 2008. during the term of the consulting agreement, dr. gromer made himself available to the chief executive officer on a reasonable basis to provide assistance at client meetings, industry trade shows and other customer relationship activities. as remuneration for his services, the company paid dr. gromer a monthly consulting fee equal to 11,340 eur (usd $17,061). 87 executive stock ownership requirements the company maintains a share ownership and retention requirement plan applicable to the company's executive officers, including the named executive officers. under the plan, the chief executive officer is required to own tyco electronics common shares in an amount equal to five times base salary, while the direct reports to the chief executive officer are required to own shares in an amount equal to two times base salary. all covered executive officers are required to meet the share ownership requirements within five years of the effective date of the plan, or within five years of the officer's date of employment, if later. the following shares count towards the ownership requirements: wholly owned shares, shares in stock units or deferred compensation plans, shares in 401(k) plans and employee stock ownership plans, unvested restricted stock and shares held by immediate family members that are considered beneficially owned by the executive officer. as of fiscal year end 2008, five of the six named executive officers met their stock ownership requirements. primary talent market peer group aerospace &amp; defense, electronics &amp; scientific equipment, industrial manufacturing 3m co. general dynamics corp. parker hannifin corp. advanced medical optics inc. general electric company perkinelmer inc. advanced micro devices inc. goodrich corp. plexus corp. agilent technologies inc. goodyear tire &amp; rubber co. plum creek timber company, inc. alliant techsystems, inc. greif, inc. polymer group, inc. ametek inc. harman international industries powerwave technologies, inc. a. o. smith corporation harsco corp. raytheon co. applied materials inc. herman miller rockwell automation inc. ball hexcel corp. rockwell collins inc. beckman coulter inc. hni corp. saic, inc. boeing honeywell international inc. schweitzer-mauduit brady corp. idex corp. smurfit-stone container, inc. calgon carbon corporation ingersoll-rand sonoco products co. cameron international corp. international paper co. steelcase inc. carlisle companies incorporated itt corporate tektronix, inc. caterpillar inc. kla-tencor corporation temple-inland inc. celestica inc. l-3 communications tennant company chesapeake l. b. foster company terex corp. clarcor inc. leggett &amp; platt, incorporated texas instruments inc. constar international inc. lockheed martin corp. textron inc. corning incorporated louisiana-pacific corp. thomas &amp; betts corp. cubic corp. manitowoc co. inc. the timken company curtiss-wright corporation meadwestvaco corp. toro co. donaldson co. inc. milacron inc. trinity industries inc. dresser-rand group inc. millipore corp. united rentals, inc. eaton corp. mine safety appliances co. united technologies corp. edo msc industrial direct co. inc. usg corp. emerson electric co. northrop grumman corp. valmont industries, inc. flowserve corporation omnova solutions inc. w. w. grainger, inc. fortune brands inc. owens-illinois healthcare weyerhaeuser co. gehl company packaging, inc. management development and compensation committee report the management development and compensation committee has reviewed the compensation discussion and analysis and discussed that analysis with management. based on its review and discussions with management, the committee recommended to our board of directors that the compensation discussion and analysis be included in the company's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 and the company's proxy statement for the 2009 annual 88 general meeting of shareholders. this report is provided by the following independent directors, who comprise the committee: the management development and compensation committee: frederic m. poses, chair robert m. hernandez daniel j. phelan november 18, 2008 compensation committee interlocks and insider participation none of our executive officers serves as a member of the board of directors or compensation committee of any entity that has one or more of its executive officers serving as a member of our management development and compensation committee. in addition, none of our executive officers serves as a member of the compensation committee of any entity that has one or more of its executive officers serving as a member of our board of directors. executive officer compensation summary compensation table the following table summarizes the compensation of the named executive officers for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 ("fiscal 2008"). the named executive officers are the company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and the five other most highly compensated executives, including an executive officer who retired on december 31, 2007. name and principal position (a) year (b) salary (2) ($) (c) bonus (3) ($) (d) stock awards (4) ($) (e) option awards (5) ($) (f) non-equity incentive plan compen- sation (6) ($) (g) change in pension value and nonqualified deferred compen- sation earnings ($) (h) all other compen- sation (8) ($) (i) total ($) (j) thomas j. lynch, 2008 $ 950,000 $ 1,865,289 $ 3,191,118 $ 1,425,000 $ 185,097 $ 7,616,504 chief executive 2007 $ 891,375 $ 3,262,895 $ 4,051,446 $ 836,000 $ 258,437 $ 9,300,153 officer (peo) terrence r. curtin, 2008 $ 490,319 $ 344,197 $ 591,837 $ 569,109 $ 101,530 $ 2,096,992 evp &amp; chief 2007 $ 437,500 $ 325,000 $ 358,236 $ 451,556 $ 360,525 $ 103,697 $ 2,036,514 financial officer (pfo) robert a. scott, 2008 $ 512,404 $ 369,487 $ 590,444 $ 590,625 $ 146,050 $ 2,209,010 evp &amp; general 2007 $ 468,750 $ 281,250 $ 553,181 $ 577,688 $ 448,521 $ 100,235 $ 2,429,625 counsel minoru okamoto, 2008 $ 498,926 $ 412,693 $ 801,944 $ 170,621 $ 370,254 (7) $ 167,421 $ 2,051,605 president 2007 $ 442,432 $ 440,006 $ 690,958 $ 221,478 $ 308,607 (7) $ 153,961 $ 1,948,835 communications &amp; industrial solutions (1) alan c. clarke, 2008 $ 488,963 $ 511,454 $ 458,500 $ 188,651 $ 200,846 (7) $ 28,556 $ 1,676,124 president network solutions (1) juergen gromer, 2008 $ 343,260 $ 4,939,863 $ 454,116 $ 1,280,323 (7) $ 226,057 $ 5,963,296 retired president (1) 2007 $ 1,116,458 $ 2,741,436 $ 5,078,816 $ 982,483 $ 548,060 (7) $ 54,024 $ 9,973,217 jane a. leipold, 2008 $ 394,551 $ 336,426 $ 543,383 $ 394,144 (7) $ 113,082 $ 1,781,586 svp global human resources (1) salary and bonus for messrs. lynch, curtin and scott and ms. leipold are paid in u.s. dollars (usd). mr. okamoto's salary and bonus are paid in japanese yen (jpy). mr. clarke's salary and bonus are paid in great britain pounds (gbp). 89 dr. gromer's salary and bonus were paid in euros (eur), with one-third attributable to his employment status with tyco electronics amp gmbh in germany, and two-thirds attributable to his employment status with tyco electronics logistics ag in switzerland. dr. gromer's salary and bonus are pro-rated reflecting his retirement from tyco electronics on december 31, 2007. to convert compensation values to usd, the monthly conversion rates, as determined by the average monthly income statement foreign currency translation rates used by tyco electronics finance, were averaged. for dr. gromer, a three-month average was used to reflect his period of employment at tyco electronics during fiscal 2008. the following are the conversion rates for the above table. 1 jpy = 0.00930 usd 1 gbp = 1.97561 usd 1 eur = 1.44593 usd (2) amounts shown are not reduced to reflect the named executive officers' elections, if any, to defer receipt of salary into the ssrp. (3) in satisfaction of the obligations to dr. gromer under his march 22, 2006 retention agreement, he received a lump sum payment representing 24 months' base salary and target bonus. the payment was paid out in accordance with his employment agreement with tyco electronics amp gmbh in germany and tyco electronics logistics ag in switzerland totaling 3,359,232 eur (usd $4,939,863 using a january 28, 2008 conversion ratio of 1.46860 for the german portion and january 29, 2008 conversion ratio of 1.47150 for the swiss portion on respective dates of payment). amounts paid to messrs. curtin and scott in 2007 represent dollar amounts outside of tyco electronics' annual incentive plan ("aip"). mr. curtin's bonus represents a retention payment paid pursuant to the terms of an agreement with tyco international entered into in order to retain mr. curtin's services during the transition period and prior to the time at which he was appointed chief financial officer to recognize the critical role he played in the successful operation of the tyco electronics business during separation from tyco international. mr. scott's bonus reflected the work he did on behalf of tyco international on the separation. both bonuses were paid shortly after july 2, 2007, after the completion of the separation. amounts paid under the company's aip are reported in column (g) as "non-equity incentive plan compensation." (4) represents the compensation costs of restricted stock units ("rsus") for financial reporting purposes for fiscal 2008 under statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r, "share-based payment" ("sfas 123r"), rather than an amount paid to or realized by the named executive officer. see note 24 (share plans) to the notes to consolidated and combined financial statements ("note 24") set forth in tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k/a for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 (the "10-k") for the assumptions made in determining sfas 123r values. for grants that vest through the passage of time, the fair market value of the award at the time of the grant is allocated as an expense over the period of vesting. the fair value of restricted share awards has been determined based on the market value on the grant date. there can be no assurance that the sfas 123r amounts will ever be realized. dr. gromer had no sfas 123r expense in fiscal 2008 because all awards had previously been expensed as a result of the accelerated vesting of his outstanding equity awards. however, there was an accounting reversal ($201,090) representing the performance awards that were forfeited upon his retirement. these awards were already fully vested and expensed in a prior period, but because the terms and conditions for the above target portion were not met and the awards forfeited, the expense was reversed. no expense on these performance awards was taken in fiscal 2007 and, therefore, no negative amount is reflected in the summary compensation table. (5) represents the compensation costs of stock options for financial reporting purposes for fiscal 2008 under sfas 123r, rather than an amount paid to or realized by the named executive officer. see note 24 in the 10-k for the assumptions made in determining sfas 123r values. there can be no assurance that the sfas 123r amounts will ever be realized. (6) represents amounts earned for fiscal 2008 under the aip. amounts shown are not reduced to reflect the named executive officers' elections, if any, to defer receipt of awards into the ssrp. (7) represents the aggregate change in actuarial present value of the accumulated benefits for mr. okamoto, mr. clarke, dr. gromer and ms. leipold under their pension plans as described in "cd&amp;a elements of compensation retirement and deferred compensation benefits." within the change in pension value for dr. gromer, a minimal amount, $3,826 in 2008 and $1,105 in 2007, is related to an annuity contract set up with an insurance company. ms. leipold had a decrease in pension value ($7,366) as a result of the increase in the discount rate and the pension plan being frozen, which resulted in no additional benefit accrual for the year. messrs. lynch, curtin and scott do not participate in a pension plan. (8) see the all other compensation table below for amounts which include perquisites and company match on employee contributions to the employee stock purchase plan, the company's 401(k) plan and nonqualified defined contribution plan, and other amounts. the amounts reflected in the table for perquisites are the company's incremental cost. the company also provides group life, health, hospitalization and medical reimbursement plans which do not discriminate in scope, terms or operation in favor of officers and are available to all full-time employees. 90 all other compensation name year perquisites ($) other ($) insurance premiums (g) ($) espp company match (h) ($) company contributions to dc plans (i) ($) total all other compensation ($) thomas j. lynch 2008 $ 95,000 (a) $ 2,303 (e) $ 3,975 $ 83,819 $ 185,097 terrence r. curtin 2008 $ 49,044 (a) $ 52,486 $ 101,530 robert a. scott 2008 $ 51,250 (a) $ 4,215 $ 90,585 $ 146,050 minoru okamoto 2008 $ 160,272 (b) $ 7,149 $ 167,421 alan c. clarke 2008 $ 28,556 (c) $ 28,556 juergen w. gromer 2008 $ 226,057 (d) $ 226,057 jane a. leipold 2008 $ 39,463 (a) $ 1,060 (f) $ 72,559 $ 113,082 (a) amounts reflect a cash perquisite allowance under the executive flexible perquisites allowance program which provides executives a cash allowance of 10%. (b) outside of the united states, tyco electronics provides a company car to certain senior executives. mr. okamoto's perquisites included $36,173, which reflects the incremental cost to the company of the lease value of a company car along with any associated taxes or maintenance costs. the amounts also included a housing allowance of $123,904 and the cost of a club membership totaling $195, all consistent with japanese practice. (c) mr. clarke's perquisites included $22,024, which reflects the incremental cost to the company of the lease value of a company car along with associated taxes or maintenance costs. in addition, mr. clarke was provided with a car allowance of $1,395 for any additional miscellaneous costs and $5,137 in tax planning assistance. (d) for 2008, dr. gromer's perquisites included $205,973 which reflects the accrued vacation payment he received for unused vacation days at the time of his retirement. the payment was made in accordance with his employment agreement, using a january 28, 2008 conversion ratio of 1.46860 for the german portion and january 29, 2008 conversion ratio of 1.47150 for the swiss portion on respective dates of payment. for 2008, this amount also included $8,846 relating to the incremental cost to the company of the lease value of a company car along with associated taxes or maintenance costs. dr. gromer was occasionally provided with a driver and the cost of the driver, $2,163, is included in the amount shown along with some miscellaneous service charges. the fuel costs attributable to dr. gromer's personal use of the company car are estimated to be $945. dr. gromer also received $8,130 in tax planning assistance. (e) represents business expense income related to spousal travel for airfare and meal costs. mr. lynch was traveling for business and his wife accompanied him on the trip; these are the costs associated with her travel. there was no additional incremental cost to the company regarding usage of the corporate aircraft, as costs reflect the commercial flight ticket mrs. lynch took back home. the company aircraft was only used by mr. lynch for company business during fiscal 2008. (f) majority represents relocation costs paid out in 2008 to ms. leipold. she was previously located in harrisburg, pa but moved to the new tyco electronics' u.s. corporate headquarters in berwyn, pa as a result of the company's separation from tyco international. (g) the amount for mr. okamoto reflects the combination of premiums paid for ordinary accident and income indemnity insurance. (h) represents the company matching contribution made under the employee stock purchase plan. (i) reflects contributions made on behalf of the named executive officers under tyco electronics' qualified defined contribution plan and accruals on behalf of the named executive officers under the ssrp (also a defined contribution plan), as follows: name year company matching contribution (qualified plan) company contribution (non-qualified plan) mr. lynch 2008 $ 11,500 $ 72,319 mr. curtin 2008 $ 7,750 $ 44,736 mr. scott 2008 $ 11,500 $ 79,085 ms. leipold 2008 $ 17,714 $ 54,845 91 grants of plan-based awards in fiscal 2008 the following table discloses potential payouts under the company's non-equity and equity incentive plans. there were no equity awards granted during fiscal 2008. the founder's grant awarded in fiscal 2007 at separation was granted at a level above the standard long-term annual incentive award to establish a meaningful ownership stake in the newly separated company and create strong management alignment with our shareholders' interests. on an annual basis beginning in fiscal 2009, our long-term annual incentive award will be granted in the first quarter of each fiscal year. the information in the table below shows estimated possible payouts under the company's aip for fiscal 2008 at different performance levels. the actual payouts under the aip for fiscal 2008 are shown in the summary compensation table. estimated possible payouts under non-equity incentive plan awards (1) name (a) threshold ($) (b) target ($) (c) maximum ($) (d) thomas j. lynch 475,000 950,000 1,900,000 terrence r. curtin 189,703 379,406 758,813 robert a. scott 196,875 393,750 787,500 minoru okamoto (2) 190,766 381,533 763,065 alan c. clarke (2) 187,806 375,613 751,226 juergen w. gromer (2)(3) 151,788 303,576 607,152 jane a. leipold 131,381 262,763 525,525 (1) the "threshold" column represents the minimum amount payable when threshold performance is met. the "target" column represents the amount payable if the specified performance targets are reached. the "maximum" column represents the maximum amount payable under the plan. (2) in calculating estimated possible payouts under non-equity incentive plan award numbers, the foreign currency translation rates were used as described in footnote (1) to the summary compensation table. (3) dr. gromer's numbers are pro-rated reflecting his retirement from tyco electronics on december 31, 2007. outstanding equity awards at 2008 fiscal year-end the following table shows the number of tyco electronics shares covered by exercisable and unexercisable options and unvested rsus held by the company's named executive officers on september 26, 2008. each equity grant is shown separately for each named executive officer. the vesting schedule for each grant is shown following the table, based on the option or stock award grant date. option awards stock awards market value of shares or units of stock that have not vested (2) ($) (h) number of shares or units of stock that have not vested (1) (#) (g) number of securities underlying unexercised options option exercise price ($) (e) option expiration date (f) name (a) grant date exercisable (#) (b) unexercisable (1) (#) (c) grant date thomas j. lynch 09/27/04 359,007 0 $ 34.48 09/26/14 03/10/05 173,015 0 $ 41.38 03/09/15 11/22/05 80,741 40,370 $ 33.52 11/21/15 11/22/05 41,430 $ 1,134,768 11/21/06 54,067 162,202 $ 35.03 11/20/16 11/21/06 70,962 $ 1,943,649 07/02/07 131,937 395,813 $ 39.97 07/01/17 07/02/07 57,194 $ 1,566,544 92 option awards stock awards market value of shares or units of stock that have not vested (2) ($) (h) number of shares or units of stock that have not vested (1) (#) (g) number of securities underlying unexercised options option exercise price ($) (e) option expiration date (f) name (a) grant date exercisable (#) (b) unexercisable (1) (#) (c) grant date terrence r. curtin 03/26/01 17,301 0 $ 51.75 03/25/11 07/12/01 17,301 0 $ 58.38 07/11/11 10/01/01 17,301 0 $ 51.67 09/30/11 03/26/04 14,360 0 $ 32.13 03/25/14 03/10/05 21,626 0 $ 41.38 03/09/15 11/22/05 11,534 5,767 $ 33.52 11/21/15 11/22/05 5,917 $ 162,067 11/21/06 11,894 35,685 $ 35.03 11/20/16 11/21/06 15,610 $ 427,558 07/02/07 26,387 79,163 $ 39.97 07/01/17 07/02/07 11,440 $ 313,342 robert a. scott 05/03/04 22,387 0 $ 32.25 05/02/14 03/10/05 7,462 0 $ 41.38 03/09/15 11/22/05 3,863 1,932 $ 33.52 11/21/15 11/22/05 3,101 $ 84,936 01/30/06 1,000 $ 27,390 11/21/06 10,813 32,440 $ 35.03 11/20/16 11/21/06 14,191 $ 388,691 07/02/07 26,387 79,163 $ 39.97 07/01/17 07/02/07 11,440 $ 313,342 minoru okamoto 04/05/99 25,952 0 $ 41.80 04/04/09 10/18/99 25,952 0 $ 47.62 10/17/09 01/10/00 6,488 0 $ 42.08 01/09/10 10/03/00 31,142 0 $ 58.57 10/02/10 07/12/01 31,142 0 $ 58.38 07/11/11 10/01/01 34,603 0 $ 51.67 09/30/11 02/05/02 34,603 0 $ 27.55 02/04/12 03/26/04 35,814 0 $ 32.13 03/25/14 03/10/05 35,814 0 $ 41.38 03/09/15 11/22/05 12,111 6,055 $ 33.52 11/21/15 11/22/05 6,278 $ 171,954 11/21/06 7,439 22,319 $ 35.03 11/20/16 11/21/06 9,755 $ 267,189 07/02/07 21,987 65,963 $ 39.97 07/01/17 07/02/07 9,530 $ 261,027 alan c. clarke 08/12/99 17,301 0 $ 56.18 08/11/09 01/10/00 8,650 0 $ 42.08 01/09/10 04/18/00 17,301 0 $ 50.43 04/17/10 10/03/00 750 0 $ 58.57 10/03/10 10/03/00 16,550 0 $ 58.57 10/02/10 11/22/05 12,695 $ 347,716 11/21/06 10,380 31,142 $ 35.03 11/20/16 11/21/06 13,659 $ 374,120 07/02/07 26,387 79,163 $ 39.97 07/01/17 07/02/07 11,440 $ 313,342 juergen w. gromer 03/10/05 216,269 0 $ 41.38 12/31/10 11/22/05 139,277 0 $ 33.52 12/31/10 11/21/06 151,388 0 $ 35.03 12/31/10 93 option awards stock awards market value of shares or units of stock that have not vested (2) ($) (h) number of shares or units of stock that have not vested (1) (#) (g) number of securities underlying unexercised options option exercise price ($) (e) option expiration date (f) name (a) grant date exercisable (#) (b) unexercisable (1) (#) (c) grant date jane a. leipold 10/03/00 3,460 0 $ 58.57 10/02/10 03/26/01 4,325 0 $ 51.75 03/25/11 07/12/01 6,920 0 $ 58.38 07/11/11 10/01/01 17,301 0 $ 51.67 09/30/11 03/26/04 8,650 0 $ 32.13 03/25/14 03/10/05 30,277 0 $ 41.38 03/09/15 11/22/05 7,785 7,786 $ 33.52 11/21/15 11/22/05 8,028 $ 219,887 11/21/06 9,732 29,196 $ 35.03 11/20/16 11/21/06 12,772 $ 349,825 07/02/07 21,987 65,963 $ 39.97 07/01/17 07/02/07 9,530 $ 261,027 (1) option and stock vesting schedule: grant date option vesting schedule restricted stock awards vesting schedule 11/22/05 1 / 3 vesting each year starting on 1 st anniversary 100% after three years from grant date 01/30/06 n/a 100% after three years from grant date 11/21/06 1 / 4 vesting each year starting on 1 st anniversary 1 / 3 vesting each year starting on 2 nd anniversary 07/02/07 1 / 4 vesting each year starting on 1 st anniversary 1 / 2 vesting each year starting on 3 rd anniversary (2) value represents the market value of tyco electronics common shares (based on the closing price of $27.39 per share on september 26, 2008). option exercises and stock vested in fiscal 2008 the following table sets forth certain information regarding tyco electronics options and stock awards exercised and vested, respectively, during fiscal 2008 for the named executive officers. option awards stock awards name (a) number of shares acquired on exercise (#) (b) value realized on exercise ($) (c) number of shares acquired on vesting (#) (d) value realized on vesting (1) ($) (e) thomas j. lynch 8,750 $ 282,494 terrence r. curtin 1,145 $ 36,966 robert a. scott 1,375 $ 44,392 minoru okamoto 1,895 $ 61,180 alan c. clarke 6,035 $ 194,840 juergen w. gromer 102,219 $ 3,811,235 jane a. leipold 1,602 $ 51,721 (1) we computed the aggregate dollar amount realized upon vesting by multiplying the number of units vested by the market value of the underlying shares on the vesting date. 94 pension benefits for fiscal 2008 the following table provides details regarding the present value of accumulated benefits under the plans described in "cd&amp;a elements of compensation retirement and deferred compensation benefits" for the named executive officers in fiscal 2008. name (1) (a) plan name (b) number of years credited service (2) (#) (c) present value of accumulated benefit (3) ($) (d) payments during last fiscal year ($) (e) minoru okamoto amp japan plan for directors 19.75 $ 2,027,868 alan c. clarke tyco electronics uk pension scheme 27.1 $ 2,030,704 juergen w. gromer tyco electronics amp germany (pension plan) 30.0 $ 15,765,948 (4) $ 430,527 (5) jane a. leipold tyco electronics pension plan part ii amp 17.0 $ 65,605 (1) messrs. lynch, curtin and scott do not participate in any pension plan sponsored by tyco electronics. (2) in calculating mr. okamoto's pension benefit, all years of service were taken into account since his latest date of re-employment in 1988 with 11.4 years serving as a director. however, mr. okamoto was paid a lump sum settlement (jpy 14,809,520) of the pension accrued prior to becoming a director of the japanese subsidiary in 1997. the value of that lump sum settlement is offset against the pension accrued during his service as a director, and the amount shown in the table reflects the pension benefit with the offset. credited service for dr. gromer takes into account all years of service with tyco electronics and its predecessors and an additional five years of service credited with a prior employer, as agreed when he joined tyco electronics in 1983. (3) the present value of accumulated benefit amounts have been measured as of august 31, 2008 with the exception of dr. gromer, whose measurement date of december 31, 2007 reflects his retirement date from tyco electronics; and are based on a number of assumptions, including: a discount rate of 2.5% was used for mr. okamoto; 6.0% was used for mr. clarke and dr. gromer; and 7.05% was used for ms. leipold; mortality rates based on standard actuarial tables; and no retirements prior to normal retirement age or withdrawals for disability or otherwise prior to retirement. with respect to: mr. okamoto, the dollar amount shown has been converted from jpy using a conversion rate of 0.009 usd to 1 jpy; mr. clarke, the dollar amount shown has been converted from gbp using a conversion rate of 1.847 usd to 1 gbp; and dr. gromer, the dollar amount shown has been converted from eur using a conversion ratio of 1.467 usd to 1 eur. (4) the present value of accumulated benefit for dr. gromer assumes that he will receive his retirement benefits in the form of a straight life annuity. he is required to pay medical and long-term care insurance, as well as taxes from the benefit provided under the pension benefits plan. additionally, $71,950 of the present value of accumulated benefit for dr. gromer is payable by an insurance company. (5) dr. gromer began to receive monthly payments from his accumulated pension benefit in april 2008. all payments were in euros. a majority of the payments were paid through tyco electronics amp gmbh in germany, with $1,957 being paid out through the insurance company related to the annuity contract. in converting the amounts to usd, a six-month average of the monthly income statement foreign currency translation rates was used to reflect the period in which payments were received. 95 nonqualified deferred compensation for fiscal 2008 the following table discloses contributions, earnings and balances to each of the named executive officers in the table under the ssrp (supplemental savings and retirement plan) that provides for compensation deferral on a non-tax-qualified basis. see "cd&amp;a elements of compensation retirement and deferred compensation benefits" for information regarding the plan. pursuant to the ssrp, executive officers may defer up to 50% of their base salary and 100% of their annual bonus. we provide matching contributions based on the executive's deferred base salary and bonus the executive earns in excess of the internal revenue code section 401(a)(17) limit ($230,000 in 2008) as follows: $5 for every $1 the executive officer contributes up to the first 1% of the executive officer's eligible pay or, if the executive officer is credited with more than ten years of service, $6 for every $1 the executive officer contributes up to the first 2% of the executive officer's eligible pay. the ssrp is offered only in the u.s., so that mr. okamoto, mr. clarke and dr. gromer did not participate in the ssrp, nor did they have any deferred compensation for fiscal 2008. name (a) executive contributions in last fy (1) ($) (b) registrant contributions in last fy (2) ($) (c) aggregate earnings in last fy (3) ($) (d) aggregate withdrawals/ distributions (4) ($) (e) aggregate balance at last fye ($) (f) thomas j. lynch $ 237,500 $ 72,319 $ (234,828 ) $ 1,265,104 terrence r. curtin $ 280,470 $ 44,736 $ (121,739 ) $ 32,460 $ 484,259 robert a. scott $ 127,695 $ 79,085 $ (83,502 ) $ 361,159 jane a. leipold $ 91,612 $ 54,845 $ (62,846 ) $ 258,707 (1) the amounts shown in column (b) represent deferrals of cash and bonuses by the named executive officers under the ssrp, the amounts of which are included in the summary compensation table in the salary or non-equity incentive plan compensation column, as applicable. (2) the amounts shown in column (c) represent matching contributions by the company, the amounts of which are included in the summary compensation table in the all other compensation column. (3) no portion of these earnings shown in column (d) were included in the summary compensation table because the ssrp does not provide for "above-market" or preferential earnings as defined in applicable securities and exchange commission rules. (4) the distribution shown for mr. curtin is from a legacy non-qualified deferred compensation plan and was made pursuant to a distribution election filed by mr. curtin at the time that the compensation was deferred. termination and change in control payments the table below outlines the potential payments to our chief executive officer and other named executive officers upon the occurrence of certain termination triggering events. for the purpose of the table, below are definitions generally applicable for the various types of terminations under the tyco electronics severance plan for u.s. officers and executives (referred to herein as the "severance plan") and/or the tyco electronics change in control severance plan for certain u.s. officers and executives (referred to herein as the "cic plan"). see "cd&amp;a elements of compensation change in control and termination payments" for information regarding the terms of the plans. " voluntary resignation " means any retirement or termination of employment that is not initiated by the company or any subsidiary other than a good reason resignation (defined below). " good reason resignation " means any retirement or termination of employment by a participant that is not initiated by the company or any subsidiary and that is caused by any one or more of the following events which occurs during the period beginning 60 days prior to the date of a 96 change in control (defined below) and ending two years after the date of such change in control: (1) without the participant's written consent, the company (a) assigns or causes to be assigned to the participant any duties inconsistent in any material respect with his or her position as in effect immediately prior to the change in control, (b) makes or causes to be made any material adverse change in the participant's position (including titles and reporting relationships and level), authority, duties or responsibilities, or (c) takes or causes to be taken any other action which, in the reasonable judgment of the participant, would cause him or her to violate his or her ethical or professional obligations (after written notice of such judgment has been provided by the participant to the management development and compensation committee and the company has been given a 15-day period within which to cure such action), or which results in a significant diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities; (2) without the participant's written consent, the participant's being required to relocate to a principal place of employment more than 60 miles from his or her existing principal place of employment; (3) without the participant's written consent, the company (a) reduces the participant's base salary or annual bonus, or (b) reduces the participant's retirement, welfare, stock incentive, perquisite and other benefits, taken as a whole; or (4) the company fails to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform the company's obligations to the participant under the cic plan. " involuntary termination " means a termination of the participant initiated by the company or a subsidiary for any reason other than cause (defined below), permanent disability (defined below) or death, subject to the conditions specified in the applicable plan. " cause " means any misconduct identified as a ground for termination in company policy or other written policies or procedures, including among other things, misconduct, dishonesty, criminal activity, or egregious conduct that has or could have a serious and detrimental impact on the company and its employees. " permanent disability " means that a participant has a permanent and total incapacity from engaging in any employment for the employer for physical or mental reasons. a "permanent disability" will be deemed to exist if the participant meets the requirements for disability benefits under the employer's long-term disability plan or under the requirements for disability benefits under the u.s. social security laws (or similar laws outside the united states, if the participant is employed in that jurisdiction) then in effect, or if the participant is designated with an inactive employment status at the end of a disability or medical leave. " change in control " means any of the following events: (1) any "person" (as defined in section 13(d) and 14(d) of the exchange act), excluding for this purpose, (i) the company or any subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) of the company as defined by section 86 of the companies act 1981 of bermuda, or (ii) any employee benefit plan of the company or any such subsidiary company (or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by the company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan that acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in rule 13d-3 under the exchange act) directly or indirectly of securities of the company representing more than 30 percent of the combined voting power of the company's then outstanding securities; provided, 97 however, that no change in control will be deemed to have occurred as a result of a change in ownership percentage resulting solely from an acquisition of securities by the company; (2) persons who, as of july 1, 2007 (the "effective date"), constitute the board (the "incumbent directors") cease for any reason (including without limitation, as a result of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or similar transaction) to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that any person becoming a director of the company subsequent to the effective date shall be considered an incumbent director if such person's election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least 50 percent of the incumbent directors; but provided further, that any such person whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of members of the board or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a "person" (as defined in section 13(d) and 14(d) of the exchange act) other than the board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or solicitation, shall not be considered an incumbent director; (3) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of at least 80 percent of the assets of the company (a "business combination"), in each case, unless, following such business combination, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of outstanding voting securities of the company immediately prior to such business combination beneficially own directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the company resulting from such business combination (including, without limitation, a company which, as a result of such transaction, owns the company or all or substantially all of the company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiary companies (wherever incorporated) of the company as defined by section 86 of the companies act 1981 of bermuda) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such business combination, of the outstanding voting securities of the company; or (4) approval by the stockholders of the company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the company. " change in control termination " means a participant's involuntary termination or good reason resignation that occurs during the period beginning 60 days prior to the date of a change in control and ending two years after the date of such change in control. no named executive officer is entitled to a payment in connection with an involuntary termination for cause. only mr. okamoto is entitled to a payment in connection with a voluntary termination for retirement. 98 executive benefits and payments upon termination total and permanent disability, death or retirement (8) involuntary termination not for cause involuntary termination change in control thomas j. lynch compensation severance (1) $ 3,800,000 $ 5,700,000 short-term incentive (2) $ 950,000 $ 950,000 long-term incentives stock options (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 0 $ 0 restricted stock units (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 4,644,961 $ 4,644,961 benefits and perquisites (4) health and welfare benefits continuation (5) $ 22,000 $ 33,000 outplacement (6) $ 30,000 terrence r. curtin compensation severance (1) $ 1,327,922 $ 1,770,563 short-term incentive (2) $ 379,406 $ 379,406 long-term incentives stock options (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 0 $ 0 restricted stock units (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 902,966 $ 902,966 benefits and perquisites (4) health and welfare benefits continuation (5) $ 16,500 $ 22,000 outplacement (6) $ 12,000 robert a. scott compensation severance (1) $ 1,378,125 $ 1,837,500 short-term incentive (2) $ 393,750 $ 393,750 long-term incentives stock options (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 0 $ 0 restricted stock units (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 814,359 $ 814,359 benefits and perquisites (4) health and welfare benefits continuation (5) $ 16,500 $ 22,000 outplacement (6) $ 12,000 99 executive benefits and payments upon termination total and permanent disability, death or retirement (8) involuntary termination not for cause involuntary termination change in control minoru okamoto compensation severance (1) $ 845,164 $ 845,164 short-term incentive long-term incentives stock options (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 0 $ 0 restricted stock units (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 700,171 $ 700,171 benefits and perquisites (4) health and welfare benefits continuation (5) outplacement (6) pension value (7) $ 123,886 $ 123,886 alan c. clarke compensation severance (1) $ 308,195 $ 308,195 short-term incentive long-term incentives stock options (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 0 $ 0 restricted stock units (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 1,035,178 $ 1,035,178 benefits and perquisites (4) health and welfare benefits continuation (5) outplacement (6) jane a. leipold compensation severance (1) $ 1,000,519 $ 1,334,025 short-term incentive (2) $ 262,763 $ 262,763 long-term incentives stock options (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 0 $ 0 restricted stock units (unvested and accelerated or continued vesting) (3) $ 830,739 $ 830,739 benefits and perquisites (4) health and welfare benefits continuation (5) $ 16,500 $ 22,000 outplacement (6) $ 12,000 (1) severance is calculated as follows under involuntary termination not for cause for u.s.-based executives: mr. lynch two times base salary plus two times bonus, messrs. curtin and scott and ms. leipold one and one-half times base salary plus one and one-half times bonus; and as follows under involuntary termination change in control for u.s.-based executives: mr. lynch three times base salary plus three times bonus, messrs. curtin and scott and ms. leipold two times base salary plus two times bonus. if the "parachute payment" (severance plus value of accelerated equity) is greater than three times the average w-2 reported compensation for the preceding five years, then an "excise tax" is imposed on the portion of the parachute payment that exceeds the average w-2 reported compensation for the preceding years. in this case, the participant will receive the greater of (i) payment of the full benefits provided under the cic plan and imposition of all taxes, including any applicable excise taxes under internal revenue code section 280g, or (ii) payment of the benefits capped at the section 280g limit with no excise tax 100 imposed. under the cic plan, benefits payable thereunder will not be grossed up for the imposition of internal revenue code section 280g or any other taxes. mr. okamoto and mr. clarke are not covered by the severance plan or cic plan; the termination benefits payable are based on local requirements. based on our understanding of japanese law, mr. okamoto would be entitled to receive his normal compensation (base salary and allowance) for the remaining term of his service contract. on september 26, 2008, mr. okamoto had fifteen months remaining in his then-current directorship. mr.clarke is entitled to a redundancy payment based on local statutory requirements, three weeks of base salary per every year of service as well as a notice pay amount. the total maximum redundancy payment cannot exceed 104 weeks' salary and the notice pay amount cannot exceed twelve weeks' salary. mr. clarke currently has 27 years of service with the company; however, only eight years of service are included in the calculation because of the lump sum settlement mr. clarke received in 2000 related to the acquisition of raychem by tyco international in 1999. dr. gromer retired on december 31, 2007, and is no longer eligible for termination payments. (2) assumes the effective date of termination is september 26, 2008 and that the pro rata payment under the 2008 aip is equal to 12/12ths of the target award. (3) assumes the effective date of termination is september 26, 2008 and the price per tyco electronics common share on the date of termination equals $27.39. under involuntary termination change in control, all outstanding stock options that are vested and exercisable as of the termination date, as well as the options that vest as a result of the acceleration, will be exercisable for the greater of the period specified in the option agreement or twelve months from the termination date. in no event, however, will an option be exercisable beyond its original expiration date. amounts disclosed for stock options only reflect options that are in-the-money as of september 26, 2008. restricted stock units and options granted on july 2, 2007 will be forfeited if the retirement date is prior to july 2, 2009. (4) payments associated with benefits and perquisites are limited to the items listed. no other benefits or perquisite continuation occurs under the termination scenarios listed. (5) health and welfare benefits continuation is calculated as follows under involuntary termination not for cause: mr. lynch 24 months, messrs. curtin and scott and ms. leipold 18 months; and as follows under involuntary termination change in control: mr. lynch 36 months, messrs. curtin and scott and ms. leipold 24 months. annual amount is an approximation. in the event that provision of any of the benefits would adversely affect the tax status of the applicable plan or benefits, the company, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay to the participant cash in lieu of such coverage in an amount equal to the company's premium or average cost of providing such coverage. (6) outplacement is calculated as the cost of services for the participant for a period of twelve months from the participant's termination date under involuntary termination change in control. the company offers twelve month coverage totaling $30,000 for the chief executive officer and provides $12,000 for senior executives. the company has the right and sole discretion to pay outplacement services under involuntary termination not for cause, but is not required to provide such benefits. (7) mr. okamoto has termination provisions within his pension plan. in the event of an involuntary termination or change in control (termination before attainment of age 60), he will receive an enhanced pension benefit. the amount shown in the table is the value of the enhancement. each year the value of this enhancement is decreasing because he is closer to his attainment of age 60. (8) assumes that all performance based units that were converted to time based awards at separation will have fully vested prior to any officer's retirement and that as a result no awards will be forfeited. compensation of non-employee directors compensation of each director who is not a salaried employee of tyco electronics is set at $200,000 per annum, payable $80,000 in cash and $120,000 in tyco electronics deferred stock units ("dsus"). the chair of the audit committee receives an additional $25,000 cash retainer and the chairs of the management development and compensation committee and nominating, governance and compliance committee receive an additional $15,000 cash retainer. the chairman of the board receives an additional $100,000 cash retainer. directors who are employees of tyco electronics or its subsidiaries do not receive any compensation for their services as directors. in fiscal 2009, audit committee members each will receive an additional $10,000 in cash compensation. each dsu will vest immediately upon grant, and will be paid in common shares within 30 days following a non-employee director's termination (subject to the option of deferring the payout as described below). dividend equivalents or additional dsus are credited to a non-employee director's dsu account when dividends are paid on our common shares. 101 upon his retirement from the company on december 31, 2007, dr. gromer became a non-employee director. as a result, on january 15, 2008, the board awarded to dr. gromer a founders' grant of 4,800 dsus. additionally, as described in the "cd&amp;a elements of compensation retention agreement and consulting agreement with dr. gromer," on january 15, 2008, the company and dr. gromer entered into a consulting agreement whereby the company paid dr. gromer a monthly consulting fee equal to 11,340 eur (usd $17,061, using an annual average of the monthly income statement foreign currency translation rates of 1.50454). the consulting agreement ended on december 31, 2008. under the tyco electronics director deferred compensation plan, each non-employee director may make an election to defer some or all of his or her cash remuneration for that year. non-employee directors also may elect to defer payout of their dsus to a date later than termination. each non-employee director may elect to receive a distribution of the amounts credited to his or her deferred compensation account either in a lump sum cash payment or in installments not to exceed ten years with payment made (or commencing) at termination of service or at a fixed date selected by the non-employee director. two non-employee directors elected to defer their compensation for calendar year 2008. as a result of recent tax legislation changes, no deferral elections will be made in calendar year 2009. tyco electronics reimburses its board members for expenses incurred in attending board and committee meetings or performing other services for the company in their capacities as directors. such expenses include food, lodging and transportation. the following table discloses the cash and equity awards paid to each of the company's non-management directors during the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008. name (a) fees earned or paid in cash(1) ($) (b) stock awards(2) ($) (c) option awards ($) (d) total ($) (h) pierre r. brondeau $ 80,000 $ 80,000 ram charan $ 80,000 $ 80,000 robert m. hernandez $ 80,000 $ 80,000 juergen gromer $ 60,000 $ 159,216 $ 219,216 daniel j. phelan $ 80,000 $ 80,000 frederic m. poses $ 195,000 $ 195,000 lawrence s. smith $ 80,000 $ 80,000 paula a. sneed $ 80,000 $ 80,000 david p. steiner $ 95,000 $ 95,000 sandra s. wijnberg $ 105,000 $ 105,000 (1) the amounts shown in column (b) represent the amount of cash compensation earned in fiscal 2008 for board and committee services. mr. poses received additional fees for his work as the board chair and as the chair of the management development and compensation committee. mr. steiner and ms. wijnberg each received additional fees for their roles as chair of the nominating, governance and compliance committee and the audit committee, respectively. dr. gromer's cash compensation was pro-rated for the 3/4ths of fiscal 2008 he served as a non-employee director. the amount in the table reflects the usd equivalent for fees earned as dr. gromer is paid in euros. (2) upon appointment to the board of directors, dr. gromer received a grant of 4,800 dsus. the grant date fair value of these dsus was $33.17 per share, calculated by using the closing price of the common shares on the date of grant. the dsus vested immediately and non-employee directors receive dividend equivalents in connection with these awards. the amounts shown in column (c) represent the compensation costs of dsus for financial reporting purposes for the 2008 fiscal year under sfas 123r, rather than an amount paid to or realized by the non-employee director. see note 24 in the 10-k for the assumptions made in determining sfas 123r values. the fair value of dsus has been determined based on the market value on the grant date. there can be no assurance that the sfas 123r amount will ever be realized. 102 charitable contributions our board governance principles require that the board approve all charitable donations by tyco electronics to organizations associated with a director. the amount of any such donation is limited to an amount that is less than one percent of that organization's annual charitable receipts and is less than one percent of tyco electronics' annual charitable contributions. any matching donation by tyco electronics to organizations associated with a director is limited to an amount that is no greater than the amount contributed by the director and is required to be made in a manner consistent with tyco electronics' employee matching gift program. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters security ownership of management and certain beneficial owners the table below sets forth information regarding beneficial ownership of tyco electronics' common shares as of january 15, 2009 by the following groups: each executive officer named in the summary compensation table appearing in "part iii. item 11. executive compensation executive officer compensation;" each of our directors; and all of our directors and executive officers as a group. the address of our executive officers and directors is c/o tyco electronics, 1050 westlakes drive, berwyn, pennsylvania 19312. beneficial owner number of common shares beneficially owned (1) directors and executive officers: thomas j. lynch (2)(3)(4) 986,390 terrence r. curtin (2)(4) 171,536 robert a. scott (2)(4)(5) 104,064 minoru okamoto (2)(4) 328,899 alan c. clarke (2)(4) 121,455 jane a. leipold (2)(4) 139,719 pierre r. brondeau (3)(6) 10,585 ram charan (3)(6) 10,585 juergen w. gromer (3)(4)(6) 594,957 robert m. hernandez (3)(6)(7) 45,585 daniel j. phelan (3)(6) 10,585 frederic m. poses (3)(6) 206,667 lawrence s. smith (3)(6)(8) 17,100 paula a. sneed (3)(6) 14,193 david p. steiner (3)(6) 10,585 john c. van scoter (3)(6) 5,670 sandra s. wijnberg (3)(4)(6) 9,889 all current directors and executive officers as a group (24 persons) (4)(5)(6) 3,021,414 (1) the number shown reflects the number of common shares owned beneficially as of january 15, 2009, based on information furnished by the persons named, public filings and tyco electronics records. beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the sec and generally includes voting or investment power with respect to securities. except as otherwise indicated in the notes below and subject to applicable community property laws, each owner has sole voting 103 and sole investment power with respect to all shares beneficially owned by such person. to the extent indicated in the notes below, common shares beneficially owned by a person include common shares of which the person has the right to acquire beneficial ownership within 60 days after january 15, 2009. all current directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own less than 1% of outstanding common shares as of january 15, 2009. (2) the named person is an executive officer. (3) the named person is a director. (4) includes common shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options presently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days after january 15, 2009 as follows: mr. lynch 893,204; mr. curtin 155,366; mr. scott 83,657; mr. okamoto 316,542; mr. clarke 107,700; ms. leipold 127,955; dr. gromer 506,934; ms. wijnberg 4,974; all current directors and executive officers as a group 2,403,152. (5) includes restricted common shares as follows: mr. scott 1,000; all current directors and executive officers as a group 1,000. (6) includes vested deferred stock units (dsus) as follows: dr. brondeau 10,585; dr. charan 10,585; dr. gromer 10,546; mr. hernandez 10,585; mr. phelan 10,585; mr. poses 11,865; mr. smith 14,165; ms. sneed 12,993; mr. steiner 10,585; mr. van scoter 5,670; ms. wijnberg 4,915. distribution of dsus will occur upon the termination of the individual's service on the board of directors. upon such termination, tyco electronics will issue the number of common shares equal to the aggregate number of dsus credited to the individual, including dsus received through the accrual of dividend equivalents. (7) includes 35,000 shares held in a trust over which mr. hernandez has dispositive power. (8) includes 1,860 shares held in a trust over which mr. smith has dispositive power. mr. smith disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares. the table below sets forth the information indicated for persons or groups known to us to be beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding common shares beneficially owned as of january 15, 2009. name and address of beneficial owner number of common shares percentage of class t. rowe price associates, inc. (1) 32,267,133 7.0 % 100 east pratt street baltimore, md 21202 fmr llc (2) 27,225,360 5.9 % 82 devonshire street boston, ma 02109 (1) the amount shown for the number of common shares over which t. rowe price associates, inc. exercised investment discretion was obtained by the company from a form 13f filed by t. rowe price associates, inc. for the quarter ended september 30, 2008. we have applied regulation s-k item 403, instruction 3, in determining the number of common shares beneficially owned. (2) the amount shown for the number of common shares over which fmr llc exercised investment discretion was obtained by the company from a form 13f filed by fmr llc for the quarter ended september 30, 2008. we have applied regulation s-k item 403, instruction 3, in determining the number of common shares beneficially owned. a schedule 13g filed by fmr llc and affiliated entities with the sec on february 14, 2008 reported beneficial ownership of tyco electronics' common shares as of december 31, 2007 as follows: fmr llc, sole voting power 1,794,845 and sole dispositive power 29,733,961; edward c. johnson 3d, sole dispositive power 29,733,961. equity compensation plan information see "part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities equity compensation plan information" for information about securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. 104 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence certain relationships and related transactions all relationships and transactions in which the company and our directors and executive officers or their immediate family members are participants were reviewed to determine whether such persons have a direct or indirect material interest. as required under sec rules, transactions that are determined to be directly or indirectly material to the company or a related person are disclosed. in addition, the nominating, governance and compliance committee of the board of directors reviews and approves or ratifies any related person transaction that is required to be disclosed. in the course of its review and approval or ratification of a disclosable related person transaction, the committee considers whether the transaction is fair and reasonable to the company and will take into account, among other factors it deems appropriate: whether the transaction is on terms no less favorable than terms generally available to an unaffiliated third-party under the same or similar circumstances; the extent of the related person's interest in the transaction and the materiality of the transaction to the company; the related person's relationship to the company; the material facts of the transaction, including the proposed aggregate value of the transaction; the business purpose for and reasonableness of the transaction, taken in the context of the alternatives available to the company for attaining the purposes of the transaction; whether the transaction is in the ordinary course of the company's business and was proposed and considered in the ordinary course of business; and the effect of the transaction on the company's business and operations, including on the company's internal control over financial reporting and system of disclosure controls or procedures, and any additional conditions or controls (including reporting and review requirements) that should be applied to such transaction. any member of the committee who is a related person with respect to a transaction under review may not participate in the deliberations or vote respecting approval or ratification of the transaction, provided, however, that such director may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting at which the committee considers the transaction. pierre brondeau, a director, is the president and chief operating officer of rohm &amp; haas company, a manufacturer of specialty materials, from which tyco electronics made $3.5 million in purchases during fiscal 2008. robert hernandez, a director, is the chairman of the board of rti international metals, inc., a producer of titanium mill products and fabricated metal components, from which tyco electronics made $0.3 million in purchases during fiscal 2008. mr. hernandez' brother, william hernandez, is the senior vice president and chief financial officer of ppg industries, a supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass, to which tyco electronics made $2.9 million in sales during fiscal 2008. frederic poses, a director, is the former chairman and chief executive officer of trane inc. (formerly american standard companies inc.), a manufacturer and provider of air conditioning systems and services and vehicle control systems, with which tyco electronics made $0.4 million in purchases and $3.9 million in sales during the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008 (prior to mr. poses' departure from trane inc. and trane's acquisition by ingersoll-rand in 2008). the foregoing directors could be deemed to have indirect interests in the transactions based on their current or former executive positions with the companies with which tyco electronics transacted 105 business in fiscal 2008, but such transactions were arms-length commercial dealings between the companies, none of which are material individually or in the aggregate. the nominating, governance and compliance committee has reviewed and approved or ratified these transactions. director independence the board of directors' governance principles, which can be found on the company's website at http://www.tycoelectronics.com/aboutus/boardofdirectors.asp , include guidelines for determining director independence. ten of the twelve members of the board of directors have been determined by the board to be independent directors. for a director to be considered independent, the board must make an affirmative determination that a director meets the stringent guidelines for independence set by the board. these guidelines either meet or exceed the nyse listing standards' independence requirements. the guidelines include a determination that the director has no current or prior material relationships with tyco electronics (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the company), aside from their directorship, that could affect their judgment. the independence guidelines also include the determination that certain limits to annual sales to or purchases from entities for which a director serves as an executive officer, and limits on direct compensation from the company for directors and certain family members (other than fees paid for board or committee service), are not exceeded and other restrictions. based on the review and recommendation by the nominating, governance and compliance committee, the board of directors analyzed the independence of each director and determined that the following directors meet the standards of independence under our director independence guidelines and applicable nyse listing standards, and that each of the following directors is free of any relationship that would interfere with his or her individual exercise of independent judgment: pierre r. brondeau, ram charan, robert m. hernandez, daniel j. phelan, frederic m. poses, lawrence s. smith, paula a. sneed, david p. steiner, john c. van scoter and sandra s. wijnberg. item 14. principal accounting fees and services policy for the pre-approval of audit and non-audit services the audit committee adopted a pre-approval policy that provides guidelines for the audit, audit-related, tax and other permissible non-audit services that may be provided by the independent auditor. the policy identifies the principles that must be considered by the audit committee in approving services to ensure that the auditor's independence is not impaired. the policy provides that the controller and senior vice president and tax officer will support the audit committee by providing a list of proposed services to the committee, monitoring the services and fees pre-approved by the committee, providing periodic reports to the committee with respect to pre-approved services and ensuring compliance with the policy. under the policy, the audit committee annually pre-approves the audit fee and terms of the engagement, as set forth in the audit engagement letter. this approval includes approval of a specified list of audit, audit-related and tax services. any service not included in the specified list of services must be submitted to the audit committee for pre-approval. all services may not extend for more than twelve months, unless the audit committee specifically provides for a different period. the independent auditor may not begin work on any engagement without confirmation of audit committee pre-approval from the controller or his delegate. in accordance with the policy, the audit committee may delegate one or more of its members the authority to pre-approve the engagement of the independent auditor when the entire committee is unable to do so. the chair must report all such pre-approvals to the audit committee at the next committee meeting. 106 fees paid to independent auditor aggregate fees for professional services rendered by deloitte &amp; touche llp, the member firms of deloitte touche tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates as of and for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 are set forth below. the aggregate fees included in the audit fees category are fees paid or accrued for the fiscal years for the services described below. the aggregate fees included in each of the other categories are fees billed in the fiscal years or expected to be billed with respect to the fiscal years for the services described below. (all references to "$" below are to united states dollars.) fiscal years 2008 and 2007 fees fiscal year 2008 fiscal year 2007 audit fees $ 19,680,000 $ 16,425,000 audit-related fees 287,000 1,223,000 tax fees 3,470,000 381,000 all other fees 2,000 1,000 total $ 23,439,000 $ 18,030,000 audit fees for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were for professional services rendered for the year-end audits of the consolidated and combined financial statements of the company, review of quarterly financial statements included in the company's quarterly reports on form 10-q, consents, comfort letters and statutory and regulatory filings in foreign jurisdictions. audit-related fees for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were primarily related to audits of carve-out financial statements of certain businesses that have been divested or are being considered for divestiture and other attest services. tax fees for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were primarily for tax compliance services. other fees for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were for subscriptions for research materials. none of the services described above were approved by the audit committee under the de minimus exception provided by rule 2-01(c)(7)(i)(c) under regulation s-x. 107 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements. see item 8. 2. financial statement schedule. see item 8. 3. exhibit index: exhibit number description 2.1 separation and distribution agreement among tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 2.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 3.1 memorandum of association of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to amendment no. 3 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed june 5, 2007) 3.2 certificate of incorporation of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.2 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form 10, filed january 18, 2007) 3.3 amended and restated bye-laws of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 4.1(a) indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(a) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(b) first supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(b) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(c) second supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(c) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(d) third supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of september 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1(d) to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 4.1(e) fourth supplemental indenture among tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd. and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee, dated as of july 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 14, 2008) 10.1 tax sharing agreement among tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 108 exhibit number description 10.2 five-year senior credit agreement among tyco international ltd., tyco electronics group s.a., tyco electronics ltd., the lenders party thereto and bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, dated as of april 25, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.3 guarantor assumption agreement between tyco international ltd. and tyco electronics ltd., dated as of june 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.6 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.4 tyco electronics ltd. 2007 stock and incentive plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form s-8, filed july 5, 2007) 10.5 tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' registration statement on form s-8, filed july 5, 2007) 10.6 form of founders' grant option award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.7 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.7 form of option award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.11 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.8 form of founders' grant restricted unit award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.8 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 10.9 form of restricted unit award terms and conditions (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.13 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.10 tyco electronics ltd. change in control severance plan for certain u.s. officers and executives (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.11 tyco electronics ltd. severance plan for u.s. officers and executives (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.12 tyco electronics ltd. deferred compensation plan for directors (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.16 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.13 tyco electronics corporation supplemental savings and retirement plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed november 9, 2007) 10.14 tyco electronics ltd. uk savings related share plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.23 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007, filed december 14, 2007) 10.15 form of indemnification agreement (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.9 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed july 5, 2007) 109 exhibit number description 10.16 amendment to tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to tyco electronics' quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended december 28, 2007, filed february 7, 2008) 10.17 consulting agreement between tyco electronics ltd. and juergen gromer, dated as of january 15, 2008 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' current report on form 8-k, filed january 22, 2008) 10.18 stock and asset purchase agreement among tyco electronics group s.a., cobham defense electronic systems corporation and cobham plc, dated as of may 12, 2008 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to tyco electronics' quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended june 27, 2008, filed august 1, 2008) 21.1 subsidiaries of tyco electronics ltd. (incorporated by reference to exhibit 21.1 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008, filed november 20, 2008) 23.1 consent of independent registered public accounting firm* 24.1 power of attorney (incorporated by reference to exhibit 24.1 to tyco electronics' annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008, filed november 20, 2008) 24.2 power of attorney* 31.1 certification by the chief executive officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* 31.2 certification by the chief financial officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* 32.1 certification by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer pursuant to 18 u.s.c. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002* * filed herewith management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. (b) see item 15(a)3. above. (c) see item 15(a)2. above. 110 signatures pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. tyco electronics ltd. by: /s/ terrence r. curtin terrence r. curtin executive vice president and chief financial officer (principal financial officer) date: january 16, 2009 pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. signature title date /s/ thomas j. lynch thomas j. lynch chief executive officer and director (principal executive officer) january 16, 2009 /s/ terrence r. curtin terrence r. curtin executive vice president and chief financial officer (principal financial officer) january 16, 2009 /s/ robert j. ott robert j. ott senior vice president and corporate controller (principal accounting officer) january 16, 2009 * pierre r. brondeau director january 16, 2009 * ram charan director january 16, 2009 * juergen w. gromer director january 16, 2009 * robert m. hernandez director january 16, 2009 111 signature title date * daniel j. phelan director january 16, 2009 * frederic m. poses director january 16, 2009 * lawrence s. smith director january 16, 2009 * paula a. sneed director january 16, 2009 * david p. steiner director january 16, 2009 * john c. van scoter director january 16, 2009 * sandra s. wijnberg director january 16, 2009 * robert a. scott, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document on behalf of the above noted individuals, pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by such individuals, which have been filed as exhibit 24.1 and exhibit 24.2 to this report. by: /s/ robert a. scott robert a. scott attorney-in-fact 112 tyco electronics ltd. index to consolidated and combined financial statements page reports of independent registered public accounting firm 114 consolidated and combined statements of operations for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 118 consolidated balance sheets as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 119 consolidated and combined statements of equity for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 120 consolidated and combined statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 121 notes to consolidated and combined financial statements 122 schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts 191 113 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the tyco electronics ltd. board of directors: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of tyco electronics ltd. and subsidiaries (the "company") as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 and the related consolidated and combined statements of operations, equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended september 26, 2008. our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. these consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and combined financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated and combined financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the company as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended september 26, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated and combined financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, prior to its separation from tyco international ltd. ("tyco international"), the company was comprised of the assets and liabilities used in managing and operating the electronics businesses of tyco international. the combined financial statements also included allocations of corporate overhead, net class action settlement costs, other expenses, debt and related interest expense from tyco international. these allocations may not be reflective of the actual level of costs or debt which would have been incurred had the company operated as a separate entity apart from tyco international. as discussed in notes 2 and 19 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2008, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 . as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in fiscal 2007, the company adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 158, employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r). as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, in connection with its separation from tyco international, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments with tyco international and covidien ltd. and has recorded the fair value of these guarantees. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated 114 november 20, 2008 expressed an adverse opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting because of a material weakness. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp philadelphia, pennsylvania november 20, 2008 115 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the tyco electronics ltd. board of directors: we have audited tyco electronics ltd. and subsidiaries' (the "company's") internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on that risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. the following material weakness has been identified and included in management's assessment: the company did not maintain effective internal control over accounting for income taxes. subsequent to the filing of its combined financial statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of its registration statement with the sec, the company determined that the combined financial statements contained errors. the errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from tyco international's consolidated financial statements and related information. the company substantially relied upon the processes at 116 tyco international to prepare its carve-out accounts for income taxes. the company determined that certain of the processes utilized by tyco international in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to the company's materiality to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. the company also determined that it did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by tyco international was complete and accurate, and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting relating to income taxes. as of september 26, 2008, the company has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a sufficient period of time and, accordingly, has further concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of september 26, 2008. this material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule of the company as of and for the year ended september 26, 2008, and this report does not affect our report on such financial statements and financial statement schedule. in our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness identified above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the company has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2008, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule of the company as of and for the year ended september 26, 2008, and our report dated november 20, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated and combined financial statements and financial statement schedule and includes an explanatory paragraph referring to the adoption of statement of financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp philadelphia, pennsylvania november 20, 2008 117 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of operations fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 14,834 $ 12,959 $ 11,811 cost of sales 11,064 9,620 8,617 gross income 3,770 3,339 3,194 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,680 1,600 1,445 litigation settlement, net 22 887 separation costs 44 restructuring and other charges, net 185 92 7 impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 137 income from operations 1,746 716 1,742 interest income 32 53 48 interest expense (188 ) (231 ) (256 ) other income (expense), net 567 (219 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 2,157 319 1,534 income taxes (558 ) (491 ) (81 ) minority interest (5 ) (6 ) (6 ) income (loss) from continuing operations 1,594 (178 ) 1,447 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 188 (376 ) (246 ) income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,782 (554 ) 1,201 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) net income (loss) $ 1,782 $ (554 ) $ 1,193 basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 3.30 $ (0.36 ) $ 2.91 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.39 (0.75 ) (0.49 ) income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 3.69 (1.11 ) 2.42 cumulative effect of accounting change (0.02 ) net income (loss) $ 3.69 $ (1.11 ) $ 2.40 diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 3.28 $ (0.36 ) $ 2.91 income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.39 (0.75 ) (0.49 ) income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 3.67 (1.11 ) 2.42 cumulative effect of accounting change (0.02 ) net income (loss) $ 3.67 $ (1.11 ) $ 2.40 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: basic 483 497 497 diluted 486 497 497 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 118 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated balance sheets as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions, except share data) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,086 $ 942 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $42 and $57, respectively 2,726 2,594 inventories 2,312 2,049 class action settlement escrow 928 class action settlement receivable 2,064 prepaid expenses and other current assets 767 589 deferred income taxes 204 325 assets of discontinued operations 505 total current assets 7,095 9,996 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,517 3,412 goodwill 7,068 7,177 intangible assets, net 486 526 deferred income taxes 1,915 1,397 receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 1,218 844 other assets 301 336 total assets $ 21,600 $ 23,688 liabilities and shareholders' equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ 20 $ 5 accounts payable 1,469 1,343 class action settlement liability 2,992 accrued and other current liabilities 1,596 1,417 deferred revenue 247 181 liabilities of discontinued operations 266 total current liabilities 3,332 6,204 long-term debt 3,161 3,373 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 721 607 deferred income taxes 289 271 income taxes 2,291 1,242 other liabilities 723 599 total liabilities 10,517 12,296 commitments and contingencies (note 17) minority interest 10 15 shareholders' equity: preferred shares, $0.20 par value, 125,000,000 shares authorized; none outstanding common shares, $0.20 par value, 1,000,000,000 authorized; 500,241,706 and 497,467,930 issued, respectively 100 99 capital in excess: share premium 61 13 contributed surplus 10,106 10,029 accumulated earnings 1,141 186 treasury shares, at cost, 36,904,702 and 44,454 shares, respectively (1,264 ) (2 ) accumulated other comprehensive income 929 1,052 total shareholders' equity 11,073 11,377 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 21,600 $ 23,688 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 119 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of equity fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 common shares treasury shares accumulated other comprehensive income share premium contributed surplus parent company investment accumulated earnings total equity shares amount shares amount (in millions) balance at october 1, 2005 $ $ $ $ $ 9,511 $ $ 331 $ 9,842 comprehensive income: net income 1,193 1,193 currency translation 242 242 minimum pension liability, net of income taxes 97 97 total comprehensive income 1,532 net transfers to former parent (214 ) (214 ) balance at september 29, 2006 10,490 670 11,160 comprehensive income: net income (loss) (810 ) 256 (554 ) currency translation 453 453 minimum pension liability, net of income taxes 207 207 unrealized loss on cash flow hedge (53 ) (53 ) total comprehensive income 53 impact of adoption of sfas no. 158, net of tax (225 ) (225 ) net transfers from former parent 848 848 transfer of parent company investment to contributed surplus 10,528 (10,528 ) guarantees and shared tax liabilities to tyco international and covidien in accordance with the tax sharing agreement (296 ) (296 ) due from tyco international and covidien in accordance with the tax sharing agreement 844 844 income tax liabilities assumed upon separation (1,091 ) (1,091 ) issuance of common shares 497 99 99 compensation expense, including charge related to tyco international equity award conversion 44 44 dividends declared (70 ) (70 ) exercise of share options 13 13 repurchase of common shares (2 ) (2 ) balance at september 28, 2007 497 99 (2 ) 13 10,029 186 1,052 11,377 adoption of fin 48 (549 ) (549 ) comprehensive income: net income 1,782 1,782 currency translation (22 ) (22 ) adjustments to unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs, net of income taxes (107 ) (107 ) gain on cash flow hedge 7 7 unrealized loss on securities, net of income taxes (1 ) (1 ) total comprehensive income 1,659 adjustment for pre-separation tax matters 16 16 compensation expense 61 61 dividends declared (276 ) (276 ) exercise of share options 3 1 7 48 (2 ) 54 repurchase of common shares (37 ) (1,269 ) (1,269 ) balance at september 26, 2008 500 $ 100 (37 ) $ (1,264 ) $ 61 $ 10,106 $ $ 1,141 $ 929 $ 11,073 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 120 tyco electronics ltd. consolidated and combined statements of cash flows fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net income (loss) $ 1,782 $ (554 ) $ 1,193 (income) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (188 ) 376 246 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes 8 income (loss) from continuing operations 1,594 (178 ) 1,447 adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by operating activities: class action settlement (936 ) 887 non-cash restructuring and other charges, net 47 23 4 depreciation and amortization 559 514 459 deferred income taxes 174 163 (14 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 41 82 62 tax sharing income (567 ) (13 ) allocated loss on retirement of debt 232 impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 137 other 43 (9 ) 12 changes in assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisitions and divestitures: accounts receivable, net (106 ) (96 ) (126 ) inventories (280 ) (89 ) (351 ) other current assets 57 (138 ) (53 ) accounts payable 49 84 257 accrued and other liabilities 126 103 95 income taxes 15 (109 ) (179 ) deferred revenue 112 33 6 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 3 25 other (54 ) 19 (20 ) net cash provided by continuing operating activities 1,014 1,508 1,624 net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operating activities (25 ) 17 39 net cash provided by operating activities 989 1,525 1,663 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (619 ) (875 ) (519 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 42 41 6 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (3 ) (23 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (2 ) (4 ) (4 ) class action settlement escrow 936 (928 ) proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operation, net of cash retained by businesses sold 571 227 other (24 ) 1 27 net cash provided by (used in) continuing investing activities 901 (1,538 ) (513 ) net cash (used in) provided by discontinued investing activities (6 ) 10 (126 ) net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 895 (1,528 ) (639 ) cash flows from financing activities: net increase in commercial paper 630 proceeds from long-term debt 900 5,676 repayment of long-term debt (1,751 ) (2,455 ) (113 ) allocated debt activity (3,743 ) (713 ) net transactions with former parent 1,112 (74 ) repurchase of common shares (1,242 ) payment of common dividends (271 ) proceeds from exercise of share options 54 13 transfers to discontinued operations (80 ) (134 ) (7 ) minority interest distributions paid (11 ) (7 ) (12 ) other (1 ) (8 ) (4 ) net cash (used in) provided by continuing financing activities (1,772 ) 454 (923 ) net cash provided by (used in) discontinued financing activities 33 (23 ) 95 net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (1,739 ) 431 (828 ) effect of currency translation on cash 1 46 (1 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents 146 474 195 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (2 ) (4 ) (8 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 942 472 285 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ 1,086 $ 942 $ 472 supplementary cash flow information: interest paid $ 100 $ 231 $ 261 income taxes paid, net of refunds 369 450 274 see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 121 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements 1. separation and basis of presentation tyco electronics ltd. ("tyco electronics" or the "company"), a company organized under the laws of bermuda, is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions, undersea telecommunication systems, and wireless systems. the separation effective june 29, 2007, the company became the parent company of the former electronics businesses of tyco international ltd. ("tyco international"). on june 29, 2007, tyco international distributed all of its shares of tyco electronics, as well as its shares of its former healthcare businesses ("covidien"), to its common shareholders (the "separation"). basis of presentation the accompanying consolidated and combined financial statements reflect the consolidated operations of tyco electronics ltd. and its subsidiaries as an independent, publicly-traded company subsequent to the separation and a combined reporting entity comprising the assets and liabilities used in managing and operating the electronics businesses of tyco international, including tyco electronics ltd., for periods prior to the separation. the consolidated and combined financial statements have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"). the preparation of the consolidated and combined financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to make use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. significant estimates in these consolidated and combined financial statements include restructuring and other charges, acquisition liabilities, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, estimates of future cash flows associated with asset impairments, useful lives for depreciation and amortization, loss contingencies, net realizable value of inventories, estimated contract revenue and related costs, legal liabilities, tax reserves and deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for pension and postretirement employee benefit expenses. actual results could differ materially from these estimates. the consolidated and combined financial statements for periods prior to the separation may not be indicative of the company's future performance and do not necessarily reflect what its consolidated and combined results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would have been had it operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented. to the extent that an asset, liability, revenue, or expense is directly associated with the company, it is reflected in the accompanying consolidated and combined financial statements. certain general corporate overhead, net class action settlement costs, and other expenses as well as debt and related net interest expense for periods prior to the separation were allocated by tyco international to the company. management believes such allocations were reasonable; however, they may not be indicative of the actual results of the company had the company been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. see note 18 for further information regarding allocations. 122 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 1. separation and basis of presentation (continued) description of the business the company consists of four reportable segments: electronic components. the electronic components segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of passive electronic components, which includes connectors and interconnect systems, relays, switches, circuit protection devices, touch screens, sensors, and wire and cable. the products sold by the electronic components segment are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their contract manufacturers in the automotive, computer, communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, appliance, consumer electronics, and medical markets. network solutions. the network solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for telecommunications and energy markets. these components include connectors, above- and below-ground enclosures, heat shrink tubing, cable accessories, surge arrestors, fiber optic cabling, copper cabling, and racks for copper and fiber networks. this segment also provides electronic systems for test access and intelligent cross-connect applications as well as integrated cabling solutions for cabling and building management. undersea telecommunications. the undersea telecommunications segment designs, builds, maintains, and tests undersea fiber optic networks for both the telecommunications and oil and gas markets. wireless systems. the wireless systems segment is an innovator of wireless technology for critical communications systems. this segment provides state-of-the-art two-way land mobile radio technology products and systems, including network and system infrastructure, portable radios, service, and maintenance. these products and systems are used primarily by public safety and government organizations. principles of consolidation the company consolidates entities in which it owns or controls more than fifty percent of the voting shares or otherwise has the ability to control through similar rights. in addition, the company consolidates variable interest entities in which the company bears a majority of the risk to the entities' expected losses or stands to gain from a majority of the entities' expected returns. all intercompany transactions have been eliminated. the results of companies acquired or disposed of are included in the consolidated and combined financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. fiscal year unless otherwise indicated, references in the consolidated and combined financial statements to fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2006 are to tyco electronics' fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006. tyco electronics' fiscal year is a "52-53 week" year ending on the last friday of september, such that each quarterly period is 13 weeks in length. for fiscal years in which there are 53 weeks, the fourth quarter reporting period will include 14 weeks, with the first such occurrence taking place in fiscal 2011. 123 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 1. separation and basis of presentation (continued) reclassifications certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period classification. 2. summary of significant accounting policies revenue recognition the company's revenues are generated principally from the sale of its products. revenue from the sale of products is recognized at the time title and risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer. this generally occurs when the products reach the free-on-board shipping point, the sales price is fixed and determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. for those items where title has not yet transferred, the company has deferred the recognition of revenue. the company provides certain distributors with an inventory allowance for returns or scrap equal to a percentage of qualified purchases. a reserve for estimated scrap and returns allowances is established at the time of the sale based on a fixed percentage of sales to distributors authorized and agreed to by the company and is recorded as a reduction of sales. other allowances include customer quantity and price discrepancies. a reserve for other allowances is established at the time of sale based on historical experience and is recorded as a reduction of sales. the company believes it can reasonably and reliably estimate the amounts of future allowances. contract sales for construction related projects are recorded primarily on the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related cost to complete. percentage-of-completion is measured based on the ratio of actual cost incurred to total estimated cost. revisions in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits in the current period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they first become determinable. contract sales for construction related projects are generated primarily within the company's undersea telecommunications and wireless systems segments. the company typically warrants that its products will conform to the company's specifications and that its products will be free from material defects in materials and manufacturing. the company limits its liability to the replacement of defective parts or the cash value of replacement parts. the company accepts returned goods only when the customer makes a claim and management has authorized the return. returns result primarily from defective products or shipping discrepancies. a reserve for estimated returns is established at the time of sale based on historical return experience and is recorded as a reduction of sales. additionally, certain of the company's long-term contracts in its undersea telecommunications and wireless systems segments have warranty obligations. estimated warranty costs for each contract are determined based on the contract terms and technology-specific considerations. these costs are included in total estimated contract costs and are accrued over the construction period of the respective contracts under percentage-of-completion accounting. on september 19, 2005, the company's wireless systems segment entered into a twenty-year lease contract with the state of new york to construct, operate, and maintain a statewide wireless 124 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) communications network for use by state and municipal first responders. lease terms and payment streams begin when each of the regional networks that make up the statewide network are determined to meet the operational requirements of the contract and are accepted by the state of new york, with the lease terms running through september 2025. the company is accounting for each regional network as a stand-alone sales-type lease and will recognize revenue on acceptance of each region. as of september 26, 2008, the first region has not been accepted by the state; therefore, the company has not recognized any revenue on the construction of the network. revenue recognition related to the operating and maintenance service elements begins following regional acceptance. as of fiscal year end 2008, 2007, and 2006, costs totaling $56 million, $28 million, and $8 million, respectively, associated with the development and construction of the statewide wireless network, including interest expense incurred to finance the construction, have been capitalized primarily as inventories on the consolidated balance sheets. on august 29, 2008, the company was served by the state of new york with a default notice related to the first regional network, pursuant to the contract. under the contract, the company had 45 days to rectify the deficiencies noted by the state. on october 16, 2008, the company certified the system ready for testing and presented its conclusions to the state of new york. the company informed the state that all deficiencies had been remediated and the system is operating in accordance with the contract specifications. the state's testing is scheduled to occur in november and december 2008. research and development research and development expenditures are expensed when incurred and are included in cost of sales. research and development expenses include salaries, direct costs incurred, and building and overhead expenses. the amounts expensed in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $530 million, $482 million, and $428 million, respectively. cash and cash equivalents all highly liquid investments purchased with maturities of three months or less from the time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. allowance for doubtful accounts the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable losses inherent in the company's outstanding receivables determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts, and other currently available evidence. inventories inventories are recorded at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market value. 125 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) property, plant, and equipment, net and long-lived assets net property, plant, and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. maintenance and repair expenditures are charged to expense when incurred. depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows: buildings and related improvements 5 to 40 years leasehold improvements lesser of remaining term of the lease or economic useful life machinery and equipment 1 to 15 years the company periodically evaluates the net realizable value of long-lived assets, including property, plant, and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, relying on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. when indicators of potential impairment are present, the carrying values of the assets are evaluated in relation to the operating performance and estimated future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying business. an impairment in the carrying value of an asset group is recognized whenever anticipated future undiscounted cash flows from an asset group are estimated to be less than its carrying value. the amount of impairment recognized is the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its fair value. fair value estimates are based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. goodwill and other intangible assets intangible assets acquired include both those that have a determinable life and residual goodwill. intangible assets with a determinable life include primarily intellectual property consisting of patents, trademarks, and unpatented technology with estimates of recoverability ranging from 1 to 50 years that are amortized on a straight-line basis. see note 11 for additional information regarding intangible assets. an evaluation of the remaining useful life of intangible assets with a determinable life is performed on a periodic basis and when events and circumstances warrant an evaluation. the company assesses intangible assets with a determinable life for impairment consistent with its policy for assessing other long-lived assets. goodwill is assessed for impairment separately from other intangible assets with a determinable life by comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit to its fair value on the first day of the fourth quarter of each year or whenever the company believes a triggering event requiring a more frequent assessment has occurred. in making this assessment, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, transactions, and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. the company has 14 reporting units, of which 13 contained goodwill prior to the annual goodwill impairment test. see notes 5 and 10 for information regarding the goodwill impairment recorded as a result of the annual impairment test. when changes occur in the composition of one or more operating segments or reporting units, the goodwill is reassigned to the reporting units affected based on their relative fair values. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company performs a step i goodwill impairment test to identify a potential impairment. in doing so, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit 126 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill may be impaired and a step ii goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. in the step ii goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. estimates about fair value used in the step i goodwill impairment tests have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. the income approach has been supported by other valuation approaches, such as similar transaction and guideline analyses. these approaches incorporate many assumptions including future growth rates, discount factors, and income tax rates in assessing fair value. changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. income taxes income taxes are computed in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 109, " accounting for income taxes ." in these consolidated and combined financial statements, the benefits of a consolidated return have been reflected where such returns have or could be filed based on the entities and jurisdictions included in the financial statements. deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the consolidated and combined financial statements. deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the differences between the book and tax bases of particular assets and liabilities and operating loss carryforwards using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. a valuation allowance is provided to offset deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. effective september 29, 2007, the beginning of fiscal 2008, the company adopted financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation no. ("fin") 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109. " see additional discussion below under "recently adopted accounting pronouncements." financial instruments in order to address certain financial exposures, the company adopted a risk management program that includes the use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments. the company has established policies regarding the types and notional value of derivative financial instruments that can be entered into. the company currently enters into foreign exchange forwards and swaps to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposures, and forward contracts to reduce the effects of commodity price fluctuations. also, the company has designated certain intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies 127 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) as a hedge of its net investments in certain foreign operations denominated in the same foreign currencies. all derivative financial instruments are reported on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges are recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges affect the carrying value of the asset or liability hedged, with changes in both the derivative instrument and the hedged asset or liability being recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges are reflected in other comprehensive income, a component of equity, to the extent that they are deemed effective. effectiveness of cash flow hedges is measured quarterly using the cumulative-dollar-offset-method and any changes in fair value that are determined to be ineffective are recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses. the remeasurement of the intercompany non-derivative financial instruments designated as a hedge of the company's net investment in foreign operations is recorded in cumulative translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheets offsetting the change in cumulative translation adjustment attributable to the company's net investments in certain foreign operations. the company determines the fair value of its financial instruments by using methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. standard market conventions are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments, including derivatives. share-based compensation the company adopted sfas no. 123r, " share-based payment ," on october 1, 2005 using the modified prospective transition method. under sfas no. 123r, the company determines the fair value of share awards on the date of grant using the black-scholes-merton valuation model. that fair value is expensed ratably over the expected service period, with an allowance made for estimated forfeitures based on historical employee activity. see note 24 for additional information related to the company's share-based compensation. share premium and contributed surplus in accordance with the bermuda companies act 1981, when the company issues shares for cash at a premium to their par value, the resulting premium is credited to a share premium account, a non-distributable reserve. contributed surplus, subject to certain conditions, is a distributable reserve. currency translation for the company's non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries with a functional currency other than u.s. dollars, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using year-end exchange rates. sales and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within equity. 128 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions, which are included in net income, were immaterial in all periods presented. cumulative effect of accounting change during fiscal 2006, the company adopted fin 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143. " accordingly, the company recognized asset retirement obligations of $16 million and net property, plant, and equipment of $4 million in its combined balance sheet at fiscal year end 2006. in addition, the company recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change which resulted in an $8 million after-tax, $12 million pre-tax, loss. recently adopted accounting pronouncements in may 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 162, " the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles." sfas no. 162 codifies the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles to be used by the preparers of financial statements. the hierarchy is identical to that contained in the american institute of certified public accountants statements on auditing standards no. 69, " the meaning of present fairly in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ." adoption of the standard did not have any impact on the company's consolidated and combined financial statements. in june 2006, the fasb issued fin 48. this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin 48 requires that an enterprise must determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities, including resolution of any appeals or litigation processes, based upon the technical merits of the position. a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not threshold is then measured to determine the amount of tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. as a result of adopting fin 48, the company recorded a net increase in contingent tax liabilities of $1,197 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $648 million, and a corresponding decrease in the opening balance of accumulated earnings of $549 million. see note 19 for additional information regarding income taxes and the adoption of fin 48. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, " employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) ." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. under sfas no. 158, companies are required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company currently uses a measurement date of august 31st. sfas no. 158 also requires additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. the measurement date provisions will become effective for the company in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact of the measurement date change provisions on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. the company adopted the funded status recognition provisions at september 28, 2007. the incremental effects of adopting the standard on the consolidated balance sheet were increases of $386 million in long-term pension and postretirement benefit liabilities, $16 million in accrued and other current liabilities, and $55 million in other assets. the impact of adoption also resulted in additional net deferred tax assets of $122 million. the impact of adoption to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of equity, was a reduction of $225 million. there was no impact 129 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) on pension or other postretirement benefit expense, cash flows, or benefits plans in fiscal 2007. on-going compliance with the standard will not impact pension or other postretirement benefit expense, cash flows, or benefit plans. see note 16 for further discussion of the implementation of the recognition provisions of sfas no. 158. in september 2006, the securities and exchange commission ("sec") issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 108, " considering the effect of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. " sab no. 108 provides guidance on evaluating the materiality of prior periods' misstatements, quantifying the effects of correcting misstatements in the current period, and criteria for restatement of prior periods. sab no. 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after november 15, 2006. the company adopted this guidance effective for fiscal 2007. the adoption did not have a material impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. recently issued accounting pronouncements in october 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position ("fsp") no. fas 157-3, " determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset is not active. " fsp no. fas 157-3 clarifies the methods employed in determining the fair value for financial assets when a market for such assets is not active. fsp no. fas 157-3 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the adoption of fsp no. fas 157-3 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in june 2008, the fasb issued fsp no. emerging issues task force ("eitf") 03-6-1, "determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities." fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 concludes that unvested restricted share awards that pay nonforfeitable cash dividends are participating securities and are subject to the two-class method of computing earnings per share. fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company does not expect that adoption of fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 will have a material impact on its consolidated and combined financial statements. in april 2008, the fasb issued fsp no. fas 142-3, " determination of the useful life of intangible assets. " fsp no. fas 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under sfas no. 142, " goodwill and other intangible assets ." fsp no. fas 142-3 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that fsp no. fas 142-3 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in march 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 161, " disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities an amendment of fasb statement no. 133 ." sfas no. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of sfas no. 133, " accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, " to provide improved transparency into the uses and financial statement impact of derivative instruments and hedging activities. the company plans to adopt sfas no. 161 in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 161 will have on its consolidated and combined financial statements. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141r, " business combinations ." sfas no. 141r replaces sfas no. 141 and addresses the recognition and accounting for identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling interests in business combinations. sfas no. 141r is effective 130 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 2. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 141r will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, " noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements ." sfas no. 160 addresses the accounting and reporting framework for minority interests by a parent company. sfas no. 160 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 160 will have on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in june 2007, the fasb eitf issued eitf issue no. 06-11, " accounting for income tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards ." eitf 06-11 requires that a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalent units paid on unvested restricted shares and restricted share units be reflected as an increase in contributed surplus and reflected as an addition to the company's excess tax benefit pool, as defined under sfas no. 123r. eitf 06-11 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the adoption of eitf 06-11 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, " the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities. " sfas no. 159 permits an entity, on a contract-by-contract basis, to make an irrevocable election to account for certain types of financial instruments and warranty and insurance contracts at fair value, rather than historical cost, with changes in the fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recognized in earnings. sfas no. 159 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the company does not expect to use the fair value election for any existing assets or liabilities as of the date of adoption. the adoption of sfas no. 159 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, " fair value measurements. " sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 is effective for the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the adoption of sfas no. 157 will not have a significant impact on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. 3. separation costs in connection with the separation, the company incurred costs of $44 million in fiscal 2007, primarily related to employee costs, including non-cash compensation expense of $11 million related to the modification of share option awards at separation and $12 million related to the acceleration of restricted share award vesting as a result of separation. see note 24 for further information on the conversion of tyco international share option awards into tyco electronics share option awards. 131 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net charges (credits) to operations by segment during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 166 $ 54 $ 9 network solutions 23 35 9 undersea telecommunications 5 5 (4 ) wireless systems 3 (1 ) $ 194 $ 97 $ 13 amounts recognized in the consolidated and combined statements of operations during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) restructuring and other charges (credits), net: cash charges $ 147 $ 74 $ 9 non-cash charges (credits) 38 18 (2 ) total restructuring and other charges, net 185 92 7 cost of sales 9 5 6 $ 194 $ 97 $ 13 cash charges activity in the company's restructuring reserves during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 is summarized as follows: balance at beginning of year charges utilization changes in estimate transfers from held for sale (1) currency translation balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2008 activity: fiscal 2008 actions employee severance $ $ 125 $ (7 ) $ $ $ $ 118 facilities exit costs 1 (1 ) other 4 (2 ) 2 total 130 (10 ) 120 fiscal 2007 actions employee severance 62 (39 ) (1 ) 9 31 facilities exit costs 1 6 (6 ) 1 2 other 1 6 (5 ) 2 total 64 12 (50 ) 9 35 pre-fiscal 2006 actions facilities exit costs 64 4 (16 ) 1 3 56 total fiscal 2008 activity 128 146 (76 ) 1 12 211 132 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net (continued) balance at beginning of year charges utilization changes in estimate transfers from held for sale (1) currency translation balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2007 activity: fiscal 2007 actions employee severance 66 (3 ) (1 ) 62 facilities exit costs 1 (1 ) 1 1 other 2 (1 ) 1 total 69 (5 ) 1 (1 ) 64 fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 2 (2 ) facilities exit costs total 2 (2 ) pre-fiscal 2006 actions facilities exit costs 66 5 (16 ) 7 2 64 total fiscal 2007 activity 68 74 (23 ) 8 1 128 fiscal 2006 activity: fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 10 (8 ) 2 facilities exit costs other total 10 (8 ) 2 pre-fiscal 2006 actions employee severance 7 (5 ) (2 ) facilities exit costs 71 (13 ) 3 5 66 other 1 1 (2 ) total 79 (17 ) (1 ) 5 66 total fiscal 2006 activity $ 79 $ 10 $ (25 ) $ (1 ) $ $ 5 $ 68 (1) during fiscal 2006, the printed circuit group business was accounted for as a discontinued operation and related restructuring liabilities were reclassified accordingly. during fiscal 2007, the printed circuit group business was sold and $8 million of restructuring liabilities were retained by the company. see note 6 for additional information. fiscal 2008 actions the company initiated restructuring programs during fiscal 2008 primarily relating to the migration of product lines to low-cost countries and the exit of certain manufacturing operations in the electronic components and network solutions segments. in connection with these actions, during fiscal 2008, the company recorded restructuring charges of $130 million primarily related to employee severance and benefits. the company expects to complete all restructuring activities commenced in fiscal 2008 by the end of fiscal 2010 and to incur additional charges, primarily in the electronic components segment, of approximately $48 million relating to these initiated actions by completion. 133 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net (continued) fiscal 2007 actions fiscal 2007 actions included the migration of product lines to low-cost countries and the exit of manufacturing operations in the electronic components and network solutions segments and the rationalization of a product line in the wireless systems segment. in connection with these actions, during fiscal 2008 and 2007, the company recorded restructuring charges of $12 million and $69 million, respectively, primarily related to employee severance and benefits. the company expects to complete all restructuring activities commenced in fiscal 2007 by the end of fiscal 2009 and to incur additional charges of approximately $5 million relating to these initiated actions by completion. pre-fiscal 2006 actions during fiscal 2002, the company recorded restructuring charges of $779 million primarily related to a significant downturn in the telecommunications industry and certain other end markets. these actions have been completed. as of fiscal year end 2008, the remaining restructuring reserves related to the fiscal 2002 actions are $56 million, relating to exited lease facilities. during fiscal 2008, the company recorded restructuring charges of $4 million for interest accretion on these reserves. the company expects that its remaining reserves will continue to be paid out over the expected terms of the obligations which range from one to fifteen years. non-cash charges and credits during fiscal 2008, the company recorded non-cash charges of $38 million primarily related to fixed assets and intangibles in connection with exited manufacturing facilities and product lines. also, the company recorded non-cash charges of $9 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines in fiscal 2008. during fiscal 2007, the company recorded non-cash charges of $18 million primarily related to fixed assets in connection with exited manufacturing operations and $5 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines. during fiscal 2006, the company recorded non-cash charges of $8 million, including $6 million in cost of goods sold for write-downs in carrying value of inventory related to exited product lines. also, during fiscal 2006, the company completed exit activities related to previously acquired operations for which goodwill had been fully impaired in prior years. as these activities were completed for amounts less than originally established as acquisition liabilities, the company recorded the reversal of the acquisition liabilities as a restructuring and other credit of $4 million. total restructuring reserves the company's restructuring reserves by segment at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) electronic components $ 123 $ 29 network solutions 33 34 undersea telecommunications 54 63 wireless systems 1 2 restructuring reserves $ 211 $ 128 134 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 4. restructuring and other charges, net (continued) at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, restructuring reserves were included in the company's consolidated balance sheets as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) accrued and other current liabilities $ 131 $ 66 other liabilities 80 62 restructuring reserves $ 211 $ 128 5. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets during fiscal 2008, the company recorded impairment charges of $137 million, consisting of a goodwill impairment of $103 million and long-lived asset impairment of $34 million. the goodwill impairment, which related to the global application and tooling division reporting unit of the electronic components segment, was incurred when the reporting unit experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous expectations and lower future expectations in certain end markets. see note 10 for additional information regarding the impairment of goodwill. the long-lived asset impairment was comprised of $22 million related to the pending divestiture of the company's battery systems business and $12 million related to certain dedicated manufacturing lines serving the north american automotive market. these charges are presented in impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. in september 2008, the company's board of directors authorized management to proceed with strategic alternatives with respect to the company's battery systems business, a business of the electronic components segment. this event qualifies as a triggering event, requiring the company to assess the recoverability of the asset group. based on a negotiated sales price of $30 million, the company has determined that the carrying value of the battery systems business' assets and liabilities exceeds its fair value. consequently, a pre-tax impairment charge of $22 million has been recorded in fiscal 2008 to write the carrying value of the assets and liabilities down to the fair value. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company determined that the certain north american automotive customer-specific product lines in the electronic components segment were impaired due to declining future production expectations. the company determined that an impairment test was necessary due to changes in the north american automotive industry. these asset groups were assessed for recoverability under sfas no. 144 and impaired based on estimates of the asset group fair values. using a discounted cash flow analysis, the company determined that a pre-tax impairment charge of $12 million was required to write the carrying value down to the fair value. 6. discontinued operations during fiscal 2008, the company was authorized by its board of directors to pursue the divestiture of its radio frequency components and subsystem and automotive radar sensors businesses. in september 2008, the company completed the sale of the radio frequency components and subsystem business for net cash proceeds of $427 million and recorded a $184 million pre-tax gain on the sale. in september 2008, the company also completed the sale of the automotive radar sensors business for 135 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 6. discontinued operations (continued) net cash proceeds of $42 million and recorded a $31 million pre-tax gain on the sale. the proceeds received in both transactions are subject to final working capital adjustments. the divestiture of the company's power systems business was authorized during fiscal 2007. as a result, the company assessed power systems' assets for impairment and determined that the book value of the power systems business exceeded its estimated fair value. the company recorded a $585 million pre-tax impairment charge in fiscal 2007 in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. in fiscal 2008, the company completed the sale of its power systems business for $102 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a $51 million pre-tax gain on the sale. during fiscal 2006, the company entered into a definitive agreement to divest the printed circuit group business. in fiscal 2007, the company completed the sale of the printed circuit group business for $227 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a $45 million pre-tax gain on the sale. during fiscal 2006, the company recorded a goodwill impairment of $316 million in income (loss) from discontinued operations related to the radio frequency components and subsystem and automotive radar sensors reporting units, which were reporting units in the wireless systems segment prior to being reclassified to held for sale. the impairment charge was incurred when the reporting units experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous expectations and lower future expectations due to sales declines in certain end markets. the radio frequency components and subsystem, automotive radar sensors, power systems, and printed circuit group businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. prior to reclassification to discontinued operations, the radio frequency components and subsystem and automotive radar sensors businesses were components of the wireless systems segment. both the power systems and printed circuit group businesses were components of the other segment, which has been renamed the undersea telecommunications segment. the following table reflects net sales, pre-tax income (loss) from discontinued operations, pre-tax gain on sale of discontinued operations including impairments and costs to sell, and income taxes for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) net sales $ 603 $ 991 $ 1,429 pre-tax income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 14 $ (598 ) $ (328 ) pre-tax gain on sale of discontinued operations 266 45 income tax (expense) benefit (92 ) 177 82 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ 188 $ (376 ) $ (246 ) 136 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 6. discontinued operations (continued) the following table presents balance sheet information for discontinued operations at fiscal year end 2007; there were no such amounts at fiscal year end 2008: fiscal 2007 (in millions) accounts receivable, net $ 188 inventories 193 intangible assets, net 29 property, plant, and equipment, net 94 other assets 1 total assets $ 505 accounts payable $ 78 accrued and other current liabilities 67 other liabilities 121 total liabilities $ 266 7. acquisitions acquisitions the company acquired one business for an aggregate cost of $3 million in fiscal 2008. during fiscal 2006, the company acquired one business for an aggregate cost of $18 million and the remaining interest in a joint venture for $5 million. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash generated from operations. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. holdback and earn-out liabilities the company paid cash related to holdback and earn-out liabilities of approximately $1 million and $82 million during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to certain prior period acquisitions. the total cash paid in fiscal 2006 was reported in discontinued operations as it related to the printed circuit group business. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other pre-acquisition contingencies. additionally, certain acquisitions have provisions that would require the company to make additional contingent purchase price payments to the sellers if the acquired company achieves certain milestones subsequent to its acquisition by the company. these payments are tied to certain performance measures, such as sales, gross margin, or earnings growth and generally are treated as additional purchase price. at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, holdback and earn-out liabilities of $61 million and $59 million, respectively, were included in other liabilities on the company's consolidated balance sheets. 137 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 8. inventories at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, inventories consisted of the following: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) raw materials $ 402 $ 324 work in progress 926 856 finished goods 984 869 inventories $ 2,312 $ 2,049 9. property, plant, and equipment, net at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, net property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) land and improvements $ 252 $ 248 buildings and leasehold improvements 1,375 1,303 machinery and equipment 6,691 6,173 construction in process 492 467 gross property, plant, and equipment 8,810 8,191 accumulated depreciation (5,293 ) (4,779 ) property, plant, and equipment, net $ 3,517 $ 3,412 depreciation expense was $523 million, $480 million, and $426 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. during fiscal 2007, the company exercised its option to buy five cable-laying sea vessels that were previously leased to the company and used by the undersea telecommunications segment at a cost of $280 million, which was reflected as a capital expenditure. 138 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 10. goodwill the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for fiscal 2008 and 2007 were as follows: electronic components network solutions wireless systems total (in millions) balance at september 29, 2006 $ 5,973 $ 843 $ 319 $ 7,135 purchase accounting adjustments (1 ) 1 currency translation 36 6 42 balance at september 28, 2007 6,008 850 319 7,177 purchase accounting adjustments 3 3 currency translation (8 ) (1 ) (9 ) impairment (103 ) (103 ) balance at september 26, 2008 $ 5,900 $ 849 $ 319 $ 7,068 during fiscal 2008, the company recorded a goodwill impairment of $103 million in its electronic components segment related to the global application and tooling division reporting unit. the impairment charge was incurred when the reporting unit experienced slower growth and profitability than management's previous expectations and lower future expectations in certain end markets. in performing the annual step i goodwill impairment test, the company determined the fair value of the global application and tooling division reporting unit based on a discounted cash flows analysis incorporating the company's estimate of future operating performance. the results of the step i goodwill impairment test indicated that the book value of the reporting unit exceeded the fair value of the reporting unit. the failure of the step i goodwill impairment test triggered a step ii goodwill impairment test in which the company determined the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill by comparing the reporting unit fair value determined in step i to the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets, including unrecognized intangible assets. the step ii goodwill impairment test indicated that there is no implied value related to the goodwill, resulting in an impairment of the reporting unit's entire goodwill balance of $103 million. the goodwill impairment is presented in impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. 139 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 11. intangible assets, net the company's intangible assets at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted average amortization period gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted average amortization period ($ in millions) intellectual property $ 815 $ (342 ) $ 473 24 years $ 809 $ (294 ) $ 515 24 years other 16 (3 ) 13 49 years 14 (3 ) 11 50 years total $ 831 $ (345 ) $ 486 24 years $ 823 $ (297 ) $ 526 24 years intangible asset amortization expense, which is recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses, was $36 million, $34 million, and $33 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. the estimated aggregate amortization expense on intangible assets currently owned by the company is expected to be as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 35 fiscal 2010 34 fiscal 2011 34 fiscal 2012 32 fiscal 2013 32 thereafter 319 $ 486 12. accrued and other current liabilities at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, accrued and other current liabilities consisted of the following: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) accrued payroll and employee benefits $ 416 $ 349 income taxes payable 215 245 restructuring reserves 131 66 dividends payable 74 70 deferred income taxes 28 49 other 732 638 accrued and other current liabilities $ 1,596 $ 1,417 140 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 13. debt debt at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 was as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) 6.00% senior notes due 2012 $ 800 $ 800 5.95% senior notes due 2014 300 6.55% senior notes due 2017 753 747 7.125% senior notes due 2037 498 498 unsecured senior bridge loan facility 550 unsecured senior revolving credit facility 700 commercial paper 647 other 183 83 total debt 3,181 3,378 less current portion (1) 20 5 long-term debt $ 3,161 $ 3,373 (1) the current portion of long-term debt at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 was comprised of amounts shown as other. during september 2007, tyco electronics group s.a. ("tegsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, issued $800 million principal amount of 6.00% senior notes due 2012, $750 million principal amount of 6.55% senior notes due 2017, and $500 million principal amount of 7.125% senior notes due 2037. in connection with the issuance of the senior notes, tegsa and the company entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers under which tegsa and the company agreed, for the benefit of the holders of the senior notes, to file with the sec an exchange offer registration statement within 210 days after the date of the original issue of the notes. the registration statement became effective april 15, 2008, and the exchange offer was completed on may 20, 2008, meeting the registration requirements. during july 2008, tegsa issued $300 million principal amount of 5.95% senior notes due 2014. the notes were offered and sold pursuant to an effective registration statement on form s-3 filed on july 1, 2008. interest on the notes accrues from their date of issuance at a rate of 5.95% per year and is payable semi-annually on january 15 and july 15 of each year, beginning on january 15, 2009. the notes are tegsa's unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of the existing and future senior debt and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that tegsa may incur. net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $298 million. in july 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of tegsa issued $100 million principal amount of profit sharing notes with an initial maturity date of 2010. remuneration on the notes is paid quarterly, commencing on october 15, 2008, based on the after tax profits of the tegsa subsidiary, with quarterly remuneration not to exceed 0.9615% of the outstanding principal. 141 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 13. debt (continued) as of september 28, 2007, tegsa had $550 million of indebtedness outstanding under its unsecured senior bridge loan facility, which bore interest at the rate of 5.47%. during fiscal 2008, the company paid off all balances and cancelled all commitments under the unsecured senior bridge loan facility. in april 2007, tegsa entered into a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. the commitments under the revolving credit facility total $1,500 million; however, $75 million of these commitments are from a subsidiary of lehman brothers holdings inc. due to the chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by lehman brothers holdings inc. in september 2008, the company believes it is unlikely that this $75 million commitment will be honored. accordingly, the company's useable commitments under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility are likely $1,425 million. borrowings under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility bear interest, at tegsa's option, at a base rate or the london interbank offered rate ("libor") plus a margin dependent on tegsa's credit ratings and the amount drawn under the facility. tegsa is required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 4.5 to 12.5 basis points depending on its credit ratings. as of september 28, 2007, tegsa had $700 million of indebtedness outstanding under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, which bore interest at the rate of 5.38%. in july 2008, the company paid off all amounts outstanding under the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility with proceeds from the issuance of the $300 million principal amount of 5.95% senior notes and $100 million principal amount of profit sharing notes, as well as cash from operations. in november 2007, tegsa commenced issuing commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers in accordance with available exemptions from the registration requirements of the securities act of 1933 (the "securities act"), as part of the company's ongoing effort to enhance financial flexibility and to potentially decrease the cost of borrowings. as of fiscal year end 2008, tegsa had $647 million of commercial paper outstanding at an average interest rate of 4.01%. borrowings under the commercial paper program are backed by the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. tegsa's payment obligations under its senior notes, five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, commercial paper, and profit sharing notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by tyco electronics ltd. the company's debt agreements contain financial and other customary covenants. as of september 26, 2008, the company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. during 2008, the company entered into interest rate swaps to effectively convert fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. as of september 26, 2008, the company had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of the 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes. the maturity date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the maturity date of the underlying debt. under these agreements, the company receives fixed rates of interest applicable to the underlying debt and pays floating rates of interest based on six month libor. these agreements do not include an exchange of the underlying debt principal amounts. the fair value of the interest rate swaps was $6 million at september 26, 2008 and was recorded in other assets with a corresponding increase in the debt obligation. the changes in fair value of both the interest rate swap agreements and the underlying debt obligation were classified as interest expense and were directly offsetting. see note 15 for additional information on interest rate swaps. 142 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 13. debt (continued) in periods prior to separation, tyco international's consolidated debt, exclusive of amounts incurred directly by the company, was proportionately allocated to the company based on the historical funding requirements of the company using historical data. net interest expense was allocated in the same proportions as debt through june 1, 2007 and includes the impact of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. for fiscal 2007 and 2006, tyco international allocated to tyco electronics interest expense of $150 million and $234 million, respectively, and interest income of $20 million and $33 million, respectively. in addition, tyco international allocated to the company loss on retirement of debt in the amount of $232 million for fiscal 2007, which is included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. the method utilized to allocate loss on retirement of debt was consistent with the allocation of debt and net interest expense as described above. management believes the allocation basis for debt, net interest expense, and loss on retirement of debt was reasonable based on the historical financing needs of the company; however, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual amounts that the company would have incurred had it been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. the fair value of the company's debt was approximately $3,115 million and $3,413 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. for further detail of methods and assumptions used in determining fair value, see note 2. the aggregate amounts of total debt maturing during the next five years and thereafter are as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 667 fiscal 2010 101 fiscal 2011 1 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 858 thereafter 1,554 total $ 3,181 the outstanding commercial paper of $647 million at september 26, 2008 is classified as long-term as borrowings under the commercial paper program are backed by the five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility. on the maturity schedule above, the $647 million is presented as maturing in fiscal 2009. certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have overdraft or similar types of facilities, which totaled $42 million, of which $41 million was not drawn and available at fiscal year end 2008. these facilities, most of which are renewable, expire at various dates through the year 2010 and were established primarily within the company's international operations. 14. guarantees pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, upon separation, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with tyco 143 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 14. guarantees (continued) international and covidien. under these agreements, principally the tax sharing agreement, tyco international, covidien, and tyco electronics share 27%, 42%, and 31%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of certain liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled by the companies with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. if any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, the company would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. the company's indemnification created under the tax sharing agreement qualifies as a guarantee of a third party entity's debt under fin 45, " guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others ." fin 45 addresses the measurement and disclosure of a guarantor's obligation to pay a debt incurred by a third party. to value the initial obligation under fin 45, the company considered a range of probability-weighted future cash flows that represent the likelihood of payment of each class of liability by each of the three post-separation companies. the future cash flows incorporate interest and penalties that the companies believe will be incurred on each class of liabilities and are discounted to the present value to reflect the value associated with each at separation. the fin 45 calculation includes a premium that reflects the cost for an insurance carrier to stand in and assume the payment obligation. based on the probability-weighted future cash flows related to the unresolved tax matters, the company, under the tax sharing agreement, faces a maximum potential liability of $3 billion, based on undiscounted estimates and interest and penalties used to determine the fair value of the fin 45 guarantee and an assumption of 100% default on the parts of tyco international and covidien, a likelihood that management believes to be remote. in the event that the company is required, due to bankruptcy or other business interruption on the part of tyco international or covidien, to pay more than the contractually determined 31%, the company retains the right to seek payment from the effected entity. at september 28, 2007, the probability-weighted cash flows and risk premium of certain unresolved legacy tax matters for which the company has made indemnifications to tyco international and covidien resulted in a fair value of the fin 45 liability of $296 million, which was reflected as an adjustment to contributed surplus on the consolidated balance sheets. during fiscal 2008, the company, while assessing its income tax positions under fin 48, decreased this liability by $14 million and recorded the adjustment to other income on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. also, in fiscal 2008, this liability was increased by $57 million as a result of the completion by tyco international of certain proposed tax adjustments to u.s. federal income tax returns. (see note 17 for additional information regarding the proposed tax adjustments.) as of september 26, 2008, the total liability of $339 million was recorded in income taxes on the consolidated balance sheet. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties, and/or indemnities to cover various risks including unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability for investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate 144 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 14. guarantees (continued) the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions; however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. the company generally records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty see note 2. the changes in the company's warranty liability for fiscal 2008 and 2007 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) balance at beginning of fiscal year $ 23 $ 25 warranties issued during the fiscal year 7 6 warranty expirations and changes in estimate 4 (3 ) settlements (4 ) (5 ) balance at end of fiscal year $ 30 $ 23 15. financial instruments the company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, debt, and derivative financial instruments. the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and derivative financial instruments approximated book value at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007. see note 13 for the fair value estimates of debt. to the extent that tyco international entered into hedges on behalf of the company prior to separation, the statement of operations effects of those hedges have been allocated to the company as part of the tyco international general corporate overhead expense allocation or interest expense allocation as appropriate. see note 18. the cash flows related to derivative financial instruments are reported in the operating activities section of the consolidated and combined statements of cash flow. the company's derivative financial instruments present certain market and counterparty risks; however, concentration of counterparty risk is mitigated as the company deals with a variety of major financial institutions worldwide with long-term standard &amp; poor's and moody's credit ratings of a/a2 or higher. in addition, only conventional derivative financial instruments are utilized. the company is exposed to potential losses if a counterparty fails to perform according to the terms of its agreement. with respect to counterparty net asset positions recognized at september 26, 2008, the company has assessed the likelihood of counterparty default as remote. at this time, the company is not required, nor does it require, collateral or other security to be furnished by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments. 145 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 15. financial instruments (continued) foreign exchange risks as permitted under the company's risk management program and policies, the company uses derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to foreign currency risks. as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the company utilizes foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted cash transactions. these contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in the derivatives' fair value recognized currently in earnings in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, the company had net liabilities of $5 million and $8 million, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheet related to these transactions. the company centrally manages the cash of most of its subsidiaries. to convert foreign currency cash flows in a cost effective manner, the company enters into currency swaps and foreign exchange forwards. the terms of these instruments are generally less than one year. the changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are largely offsetting and are recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. interest rate risk management the company issues debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund its operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, the company has used, and may use in the future, interest rate swaps to convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of its variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). as of fiscal year end 2008, the company had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of the 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes. the maturity date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the maturity date of the underlying debt. under these agreements, the company receives fixed rates of interest applicable to the underlying debt and pays floating rates of interest based on six month libor. as of september 26, 2008, the company's interest rate swaps were in an asset position of $6 million. the changes in fair value of both the interest rate swap agreements and the underlying debt obligation were classified as interest expense and were directly offsetting. as of september 28, 2007, the company had no outstanding interest rate swaps. during fiscal 2007, in anticipation of issuing fixed rate debt, the company entered into and, concurrent with the company's fixed-rate debt issuance, terminated forward starting interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in interest expense that would result from changes in interest rates between the date of the swap and the company's anticipated date of issuing fixed-rate debt. these forward starting interest rate swaps were designated as effective hedges of the probable interest payments under sfas no. 133. upon the issuance of the company's senior notes in september 2007, these swaps were terminated for a cash payment of $54 million. the effective portion of these swaps of $53 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and is recognized in earnings as interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt instruments. the ineffective portion of $1 million was 146 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 15. financial instruments (continued) recorded as interest expense in the consolidated and combined financial statements in fiscal 2007. in fiscal 2008, the company recognized $6 million of interest expense relating to the swaps in the consolidated and combined statement of operations. hedge of net investment the company hedges its net investments in certain foreign operations using intercompany non-derivative financial instruments denominated in the same currencies. the aggregate notional value of these hedges was $1,161 million and $3,675 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. as a result of the hedges of net investment, the company reclassified a foreign exchange loss of $168 million and $118 million, respectively, in fiscal 2008 and 2007. these amounts were recorded as currency translation, a component of other comprehensive income, offsetting foreign exchange gains or losses attributable to the translation of the net investments. (see additional information in note 23.) the company did not hedge net investments in foreign operations during fiscal 2006. commodity hedges as part of managing the exposure to certain commodity price fluctuations, the company utilizes forward contracts. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in prices of commodities used in production. the company accounts for the contracts on its consolidated balance sheets at fair value. the effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as, and meets the required criteria for, a cash flow hedge is recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the underlying hedged item affects earnings. ineffective portions of a cash flow hedge are recognized currently in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. at september 26, 2008, the company's commodity hedges, all of which related to gold and had maturities of less than one year, had a notional value of $21 million and were in a gain position of $2 million. the hedges were effective as of september 26, 2008, resulting in a reclassification of the $2 million gain to other comprehensive income. no amounts were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2008. the company expects that significantly all of the balance in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the commodities hedges will be reclassified into the consolidated and combined statements of operations during fiscal 2009 as adjustments to cost of sales. the company did not engage in commodities hedges during fiscal 2007 or 2006. 147 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans adoption of sfas no. 158 the company adopted the funded status recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 effective september 28, 2007. the impact of the adoption of sfas no. 158 on the consolidated balance sheet at september 28, 2007 was as follows: prior to sfas no. 158 adoption impact of sfas no. 158 adoption after sfas no. 158 adoption (in millions) assets: current deferred income tax assets $ 320 $ 5 $ 325 other assets 281 55 336 non-current deferred income tax assets 1,274 123 1,397 total assets $ 23,505 $ 183 $ 23,688 liabilities and shareholders' equity: accrued and other current liabilities $ 1,401 $ 16 $ 1,417 non-current deferred tax liabilities 265 6 271 long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 221 386 607 accumulated other comprehensive income 1,277 (225 ) 1,052 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 23,505 $ 183 $ 23,688 defined benefit pension plans prior to separation, the company participated through its former parent, tyco international, in a number of contributory and noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans. subsequent to separation, the company assumed sponsorship of those plans, covering certain of its u.s. and non-u.s. employees, designed in accordance with local custom and practice. net periodic pension benefit cost is based on the utilization of the projected unit credit method of calculation and is charged to the consolidated and combined statements of operations on a systematic basis over the expected average remaining service lives of current participants. contribution amounts are actuarially determined. the benefits under the defined benefit plans are based on various factors, such as years of service and compensation. prior to separation, the company participated through its former parent in one co-mingled plan that included plan participants of other tyco international subsidiaries. the company recorded its portion of the co-mingled plan's expense and the related obligation, which has been actuarially determined based on the company's specific benefit formulas by participants and allocated plan assets. the contribution amounts were determined in total for the co-mingled plan and allocated to the company based on headcount. management believes such allocations were reasonable. in fiscal 2007, this plan was legally separated, resulting in a reallocation of assets based on the employee retirement income security act ("erisa") prescribed calculation. the company's measurement date is august 31 for each year presented. 148 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) the net periodic benefit cost (credit) for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 ($ in millions) service cost $ 5 $ 5 $ 4 $ 73 $ 60 $ 62 interest cost 56 55 50 83 70 60 expected return on plan assets (75 ) (74 ) (72 ) (73 ) (60 ) (51 ) amortization of prior service credit (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) amortization of net actuarial loss 7 13 15 8 20 24 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits 1 (10 ) (3 ) (1 ) net periodic benefit cost (credit) $ (6 ) $ (11 ) $ (3 ) $ 86 $ 87 $ 93 weighted-average assumptions used to determine net pension cost (credit) during the period: discount rate 6.35 % 6.00 % 5.25 % 4.70 % 4.15 % 3.85 % expected return on plan assets 7.99 % 7.99 % 7.99 % 5.98 % 5.73 % 5.76 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 3.45 % 3.19 % 3.06 % the following table represents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, and the net amount recognized on the consolidated balance sheets for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 ($ in millions) change in benefit obligations: benefit obligation at end of prior period $ 918 $ 947 $ 1,758 $ 1,662 service cost 5 5 73 60 interest cost 56 55 83 70 employee contributions 7 6 plan amendments 2 3 actuarial gain (58 ) (34 ) (51 ) (126 ) benefits and administrative expenses paid (63 ) (51 ) (68 ) (60 ) (divestitures) new plans (4 ) 4 31 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (9 ) (6 ) currency translation (14 ) 118 benefit obligation at end of period $ 858 $ 918 $ 1,785 $ 1,758 149 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 ($ in millions) change in plan assets: fair value of plan assets at end of prior period $ 964 $ 951 $ 1,194 $ 1,002 actual return on plan assets (59 ) 114 (80 ) 94 employer contributions 1 1 76 68 employee contributions 7 6 (divestitures) new plans (51 ) 16 benefits and administrative expenses paid (63 ) (51 ) (68 ) (60 ) settlement gain and special termination benefits (7 ) (6 ) currency translation (23 ) 74 fair value of plan assets at end of period $ 843 $ 964 $ 1,099 $ 1,194 funded status $ (15 ) $ 46 $ (686 ) $ (564 ) contributions after the measurement date 8 11 net amount recognized $ (15 ) $ 46 $ (678 ) $ (553 ) amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheets: other assets $ 2 $ 63 $ 8 $ 14 accrued and other current liabilities (4 ) (3 ) (10 ) (8 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities (13 ) (14 ) (676 ) (559 ) net amount recognized $ (15 ) $ 46 $ (678 ) $ (553 ) weighted-average assumptions used to determine pension benefit obligations at period end: discount rate 7.05 % 6.35 % 5.11 % 4.70 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 3.63 % 3.45 % the pre-tax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income for all u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2008 and 2007 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) change in net loss: unrecognized net loss at end of prior period $ 170 $ 200 $ 240 $ 400 current year changes recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 75 (27 ) 98 (142 ) amortization reclassified to earnings (7 ) (13 ) (8 ) (20 ) curtailment/settlement reclassified to earnings 10 3 2 other (7 ) unrecognized net loss at end of period $ 238 $ 170 $ 326 $ 240 change in prior service credits: unrecognized prior service credit at end of prior period $ $ $ (18 ) $ (21 ) amortization reclassified to earnings 2 2 other 3 1 unrecognized prior service credit at end of period $ $ $ (13 ) $ (18 ) 150 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) the estimated amortization from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in fiscal 2009 is as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans (in millions) amortization of net actuarial loss $ (15 ) $ (14 ) amortization of prior service credit 1 $ (15 ) $ (13 ) in determining the expected return on plan assets, the company considers the relative weighting of plan assets by class and individual asset class performance expectations as provided by their external advisors. the investment strategy for the u.s. pension plans has been governed by the company's investment committee; investment strategies for non-u.s. pension plans are governed locally. the company's investment strategy for its pension plans is to manage the plans on a going concern basis. current investment policy is to achieve a reasonable return on assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for participants. projected returns are based primarily on pro forma asset allocation and expected long-term returns and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and investment management. during the year, the company's investment committee made the decision to change the target asset allocation of the u.s. plans' master trust from 60% equity and 40% fixed income to 30% equity and 70% fixed income in an effort to better align asset risk with the anticipated payment of benefit obligations. the target asset allocation transition began in fiscal 2008 and is expected to be completed in fiscal 2010. subsequent to fiscal year end 2008, conditions in the worldwide debt and equity markets have deteriorated significantly. these conditions have had a negative effect on the fair value of the plan's investments since september 26, 2008. target weighted-average asset allocations and weighted-average asset allocations for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans target fiscal 2008 fiscal 2007 target fiscal 2008 fiscal 2007 asset category: equity securities 30 % 54 % 59 % 47 % 45 % 52 % debt securities 70 44 39 41 45 39 real estate 3 3 3 cash and cash equivalents 2 2 9 7 6 total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % tyco electronics' common shares are not a direct investment of the company's pension funds; however, the pension funds may indirectly include tyco electronics shares. the aggregate amount of the tyco electronics common shares would not be considered material relative to the total pension fund assets. 151 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) the company's funding policy is to make contributions in accordance with the laws and customs of the various countries in which it operates as well as to make discretionary voluntary contributions from time-to-time. the company anticipates that, at a minimum, it will make the minimum required contributions to its pension plans in fiscal 2009 of $4 million for u.s. plans and $77 million for non-u.s. plans. benefit payments, which reflect future expected service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 58 $ 61 fiscal 2010 57 62 fiscal 2011 58 69 fiscal 2012 60 73 fiscal 2013 61 83 fiscal 2014-2018 338 453 the accumulated benefit obligation for all u.s. and non-u.s. plans as of fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 was as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) accumulated benefit obligation $ 855 $ 915 $ 1,518 $ 1,503 the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) accumulated benefit obligation $ 808 $ 19 $ 1,314 $ 754 fair value of plan assets 793 4 862 386 the projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were as follows: u.s. plans non-u.s. plans fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) projected benefit obligation $ 810 $ 22 $ 1,726 $ 1,667 fair value of plan assets 793 4 1,032 1,088 152 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) defined contribution retirement plans the company maintains several defined contribution retirement plans, which include 401(k) matching programs, as well as qualified and nonqualified profit sharing and share bonus retirement plans. expense for the defined contribution plans is computed as a percentage of participants' compensation and was $77 million, $72 million, and $69 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. deferred compensation plans the company maintains nonqualified deferred compensation plans, which permit eligible employees to defer a portion of their compensation. a record keeping account is set up for each participant and the participant chooses from a variety of measurement funds for the deemed investment of their accounts. the measurement funds correspond to a number of funds in tyco electronics' 401(k) plans and the account balance fluctuates with the investment returns on those funds. total deferred compensation liabilities were $38 million and $37 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. rabbi trusts the company has established rabbi trusts, related to certain acquired companies, through which the assets may be used to pay non-qualified plan benefits. the trusts primarily hold bonds. the rabbi trust assets are subject to the claims of the company's creditors in the event of the company's insolvency. the value of the assets held by these trusts, included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, was $84 million and $89 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. total liabilities related to the assets held by the rabbi trust and reflected on the consolidated balance sheet were $17 million and $25 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively. plan participants are general creditors of the company with respect to these benefits. postretirement benefit plans in addition to providing pension and 401(k) benefits, the company also provides certain health care coverage continuation for qualifying retirees from date of retirement to age 65. 153 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) net periodic postretirement benefit cost in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 ($ in millions) service cost $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 interest cost 2 3 2 curtailment/settlement gain and special termination benefits (3 ) net periodic postretirement benefit cost $ 3 $ 1 $ 3 weighted-average assumptions used to determine net postretirement benefit cost during the period: discount rate 6.35 % 5.75 % 4.75 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % the components of the accrued postretirement benefit obligations, substantially all of which are unfunded, at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 ($ in millions) change in benefit obligations: benefit obligation at beginning of period $ 41 $ 49 service cost 1 1 interest cost 2 3 actuarial gain (3 ) (7 ) benefits paid (3 ) (5 ) benefit obligation at end of period $ 38 $ 41 change in plan assets: fair value of assets at beginning of period $ 4 $ 4 employer contributions 3 5 benefits paid (3 ) (5 ) fair value of plan assets at end of period $ 4 $ 4 funded status / net amount recognized $ (34 ) $ (37 ) amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheets: accrued and other postretirement liabilities $ (2 ) $ (3 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities (32 ) (34 ) net amount recognized $ (34 ) $ (37 ) weighted-average assumptions used to determine postretirement benefit obligations at period end: discount rate 7.05 % 6.35 % rate of compensation increase 4.00 % 4.00 % unrecognized prior service costs of $2 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. there were no changes in the balances during either period. 154 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 16. retirement plans (continued) there is expected to be no significant amortization of the current balance into net periodic benefit cost in fiscal 2009. the company expects to make contributions to its postretirement benefit plans of $2 million in fiscal 2009. benefit payments, including those amounts to be paid out of corporate assets and reflecting future expected service as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 3 fiscal 2010 3 fiscal 2011 3 fiscal 2012 3 fiscal 2013 3 fiscal 2014-2018 15 health care cost trend assumptions are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 health care cost trend rate assumed for next fiscal year 9.21 % 10.18 % rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.00 % 5.00 % fiscal year the ultimate trend rate is achieved 2014 2013 a one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: one percentage point increase one percentage point decrease (in millions) effect on total of service and interest cost $ $ effect on postretirement benefit obligation 3 (2 ) 17. commitments and contingencies general matters the company has facility, land, vehicle, and equipment leases that expire at various dates through the year 2056. rental expense under these leases was $182 million, $165 million, and $158 million for 155 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. at fiscal year end 2008, the minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable lease obligations were as follows: (in millions) fiscal 2009 $ 118 fiscal 2010 88 fiscal 2011 67 fiscal 2012 46 fiscal 2013 37 thereafter 127 total $ 483 the company also has purchase obligations related to commitments to purchase certain goods and services. at fiscal year end 2008, the company had commitments to spend $128 million in fiscal 2009. at fiscal year end 2008, the company had a contingent purchase price commitment of $80 million related to the fiscal 2001 acquisition of com-net by the wireless systems segment. this represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of com-net only after the construction and installation of a communications system for the state of florida is finished and the state has approved the system based on the guidelines set forth in the contract. a liability for this contingency has not been recorded in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements as the amount of this contingency is not currently estimable. environmental matters the company is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. as of fiscal year end 2008, the company concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $13 million to $25 million. as of fiscal year end 2008, the company concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $16 million, of which $4 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $12 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters of $16 million, the company believes that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. tyco electronics legal proceedings intellectual property and antitrust litigation the company is a party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions that may require the company to pay damage awards. the company has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. other matters the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions, and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of 156 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. legal matters under separation and distribution agreement the separation and distribution agreement provided for the allocation among the company, tyco international, and covidien of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the company's and covidien's separations from tyco international on june 29, 2007. under the separation and distribution agreement, the company assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters at separation related to the company's business or assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify the other parties for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. tyco electronics will be responsible for 31% of certain potential liabilities that may arise from litigation pending or threatened at separation that was not allocated to one of the three parties, and tyco international and covidien are responsible for 27% and 42%, respectively, of such liabilities. if any party defaults in payment of its allocated share of any such liability, each non-defaulting party will be responsible for an equal portion of the amount in default together with any other non-defaulting party, although any such payments will not release the obligation of the defaulting party. subject to the terms and conditions of the separation and distribution agreement, tyco international manages and controls all the legal matters related to the shared contingent liabilities, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. all costs and expenses that tyco international incurs in connection with the defense of such litigation, other than the amount of any judgment or settlement, which will be allocated in the manner described above, will be borne equally by tyco international, covidien, and the company. tyco international legal proceedings securities class actions and settlement as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, prior to the announcement by tyco international of the planned separation of tyco electronics and covidien in january 2006, tyco international and certain of its former directors and officers were named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action lawsuits. as a part of the separation and distribution agreement, any existing or potential liabilities related to the securities class actions were allocated among tyco international, covidien, and the company. the company is responsible for 31% of potential liabilities that may arise upon the resolution of the remaining pending litigation. most of the securities class actions were transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire for coordinated or consolidated pre-trial proceedings. a consolidated securities class action complaint was filed in these proceedings and on june 12, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all persons and entities who purchased or otherwise acquired tyco securities between december 13, 1999 and june 7, 2002, and who were damaged thereby, excluding defendants, all of the officers, directors and partners thereof, members of their immediate families and their legal representatives, heirs, successors or assigns, and any entity in which any of the foregoing have or had a controlling interest." as previously reported, tyco international settled 32 of the purported securities class action lawsuits arising from the actions alleged to have been taken by its prior management, for which the company was responsible for 31%. all legal contingencies that could have affected the final order entered in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire approving the settlement expired on february 21, 2008. as of the opt-out deadline for the 157 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) settlement, tyco international received opt-out notices from individuals and entities totaling approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members. a number of these individuals and entities have filed actions separately against tyco international and/or tyco international, covidien, and the company. it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome or to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of the asserted or unasserted claims from individuals that have opted out. several securities cases remain outstanding, including several cases asserting claims arising under erisa. if the unresolved securities proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco international, the company's share of any additional potential losses under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. in fiscal 2007, the company was allocated a charge from tyco international of $922 million for the class action settlement, for which no tax benefit was available. in addition, in fiscal 2007, the company was allocated $35 million of income relating to tyco international's expected recovery of certain costs from insurers. the net charge of $887 million was recorded on the consolidated and combined statement of operations as litigation settlement, net. the portion allocated to the company was consistent with the sharing percentage included in the separation and distribution agreement. tyco international placed funds in escrow for the benefit of the class. the escrow account earned interest that was payable to the class. in addition, interest was accrued on the class action settlement liability. at fiscal year end 2007, the company reflected $928 million on the consolidated balance sheet for its portion of the escrow. in addition, the company reflected a $2,992 million liability and a $2,064 million receivable from tyco international and covidien for their portion of the liability on the consolidated balance sheet at fiscal year end 2007. the finalization of the settlement in february 2008 resulted in the extinguishment of the company's class action settlement liability of $3,020 million, interest in the escrow of $936 million, and class action settlement receivable of $2,084 million from the consolidated balance sheet in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. the finalization of the class action settlement resulted in a decrease to cash flows from operating activities and an increase to cash flows from investing activities during fiscal 2008. it did not affect the cash balance on the consolidated balance sheet because the company had previously fully funded its portion of the class action settlement into an escrow account intended to be used to settle the liability, as mentioned above. settlement of securities proceedings not covered by the class action settlement as previously reported, on april 29, 2008, tyco international signed a definitive agreement with the state of new jersey, on behalf of several of the state's pension funds, to settle the action captioned new jersey v. tyco international ltd., et al. , brought by the state in 2002 in the united states district court for the district of new jersey against tyco international, its former auditors, and certain of its former officers and directors, alleging that the defendants had, among other things, violated federal and state securities and other laws through the unauthorized and improper actions of tyco international's former management. the agreement with the state of new jersey provided for tyco international to make a payment of $73 million to the plaintiffs in exchange for the plaintiffs' agreement to dismiss the case and release all claims asserted or which might have been asserted therein, which payment was made on june 2, 2008. in fiscal 2008, the company recorded a charge of $23 million, for which no tax 158 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) benefit was available. the charge represented the company's share of the settlement costs in accordance with the sharing percentages included in the separation and distribution agreement. on june 2, 2008, tyco international entered into an agreement in principle with the trustee of various trusts that brought claims against tyco international in the previously disclosed action captioned ballard v. tyco international ltd., et al ., in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire, alleging, among other things, securities fraud in connection with tyco international's acquisition in 1999 of amp incorporated. a definitive settlement agreement and release was executed on june 10, 2008. the settlement agreement and release set forth the terms pursuant to which the parties settled all claims between them that were raised or could have been raised in the litigation. the settlement agreement and release provided that tyco international make a payment of $36 million to the plaintiffs, which payment was subject to the sharing formula contained in the separation and distribution agreement. pursuant to the sharing formula, the company's net liability was approximately $11 million, with tyco international and covidien responsible for approximately $10 million and $15 million, respectively. investigations as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, tyco international and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec's division of enforcement, the u.s. department of labor, the general services administration, and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into tyco international's governance, management, operations, accounting, and related controls prior to the separation. the department of labor is investigating tyco international and the administrators of certain of its benefit plans. tyco international has advised the company that it cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can it predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that tyco international will be required to pay material fines or suffer other penalties, and pursuant to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, a portion of such payments may be allocated to the company. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. as a result, the company's share of such potential losses also is not estimable and may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. compliance matters as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, tyco international received and has responded to various allegations that certain improper payments were made by tyco international subsidiaries, including tyco electronics subsidiaries, in recent years prior to the separation. tyco international reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations, including that it retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls, and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. to date, the company's baseline review has revealed that some of the company's former business practices may not comply with fcpa requirements. at this time, the company cannot predict the outcome of these matters and other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of these matters. however, it is possible that the 159 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) company may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties, or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. any judgment, settlement, or other cost incurred by tyco international in connection with these matters not specifically allocated to tyco international, covidien, or the company would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement. income taxes in connection with the separation, the company entered into a tax sharing agreement that generally governs covidien's, tyco electronics', and tyco international's respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the distribution of all of the shares of covidien or tyco electronics to qualify as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of section 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code") or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs to qualify for tax-favored treatment under the code. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, upon separation, the company entered into certain guarantee commitments and indemnifications with tyco international and covidien. under these agreements, principally the tax sharing agreement, tyco international, covidien, and tyco electronics share 27%, 42%, and 31%, respectively, of certain contingent liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of certain liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled by the companies with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. if any of the companies responsible for all or a portion of such liabilities were to default in its payment of costs or expenses related to any such liability, the company would be responsible for a portion of the defaulting party or parties' obligation. prior to separation, certain of the company's subsidiaries filed combined tax returns with tyco international. those and other of the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. tyco international, as the u.s. income tax audit controlling party under the tax sharing agreement, is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed under the provisions of fin 48, which relate specifically to tyco electronics entities have been recorded in the company's consolidated and combined financial statements. in addition, the company may be required to fund portions of covidien and tyco international's tax obligations. estimates about these guarantees have also been recognized in the consolidated and combined financial statements. see note 14 for additional information. in prior years, in connection with the irs audit of various fiscal years, tyco international submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments for fiscal years 1997 through 2000 for which the irs had completed its field work. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that acceptance 160 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 17. commitments and contingencies (continued) of adjustments presented for additional periods through fiscal 2005 is probable and, accordingly, has recorded them, as well as the impacts of the adjustments accepted by the irs, in the consolidated and combined financial statements. during fiscal 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco international's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agent reports which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. tyco international has agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact of $458 million which was paid by tyco international during fiscal 2007. the company's portion of this payment reduced income taxes on the consolidated balance sheet by $163 million. it is the company's understanding that tyco international has appealed other proposed adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion and is vigorously defending its prior filed tax return positions. additionally, the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against tyco international arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with certain intercompany transfers of stock in 1998 and 1999. any penalty imposed would be subject to sharing with tyco international and covidien under the tax sharing agreement. it is the company's understanding that tyco international is vigorously opposing the assertion of any such penalties. the company continues to believe that the amounts recorded in its consolidated and combined financial statements relating to these matters are appropriate. however, the ultimate resolution is uncertain and, should tyco international lose its appeal, it could result in a material impact to the company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. tyco international continues to complete proposed adjustments to the remainder of its u.s. federal income tax returns. in fiscal 2008, certain proposed adjustments to u.s. federal income tax returns were completed by tyco international and presented to the irs. as a result, in fiscal 2008, the company recorded a $225 million decrease in income tax liabilities, a $42 million decrease in deferred tax assets, a $140 million decrease in the receivable from tyco international and covidien recorded in connection with the tax sharing agreement, a $57 million increase in the indemnification liability to tyco international and covidien, and a $14 million charge to contributed surplus. see note 14 for additional information regarding the indemnification liability to tyco international and covidien. in addition, in fiscal 2008, tyco international, covidien, and the company completed and filed certain fiscal 2007 u.s. consolidated federal and state income tax returns which included a combination of tyco international, covidien, and the company's subsidiaries. as a result, the company recorded a $66 million decrease in income tax liabilities with a corresponding offset to the income tax receivable, a $44 million decrease in the receivable from tyco international and covidien and a $42 million decrease in the payable to tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, a $30 million increase in contributed surplus, and a $32 million net adjustment to other related tax accounts. as the company's tax return positions continue to be updated, additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated and combined financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. additionally, adjustments may be recorded to shareholders' equity in the future for the impact of filing final or amended income tax returns in certain jurisdictions where those returns include a combination of tyco international, covidien, and/or the company's subsidiaries for the periods prior to the separation. 161 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 18. related party transactions trade activity prior to separation, the company sold certain of its manufactured products consisting primarily of connectors and cable assemblies to tyco international and its affiliates, at prices which approximated fair value. sales to tyco international and its affiliates, which are included in net sales on the consolidated and combined statements of operations, were $60 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2007 and $76 million in fiscal 2006. debt and related items the company was allocated a portion of tyco international's consolidated debt, net interest expense, and loss on retirement of debt. see note 13 for further information regarding these allocations. allocated expenses in fiscal 2007, the company was allocated a net charge from tyco international of $887 million related to the class action settlement. see note 17 for further information regarding the class action settlement. prior to separation, the company was allocated general corporate overhead expenses from tyco international for corporate-related functions based on a pro-rata percentage of tyco international's consolidated net revenue. general corporate overhead expenses primarily related to centralized corporate functions, including treasury, tax, legal, internal audit, human resources, and risk management functions. during fiscal 2007 and 2006, the company was allocated $152 million and $177 million, respectively, of general corporate overhead expenses incurred by tyco international, which are included within selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated and combined statements of operations. as discussed in note 1, the company believes the assumptions and methodologies underlying the allocation of general corporate overhead expenses and net class action settlement costs from tyco international were reasonable. however, such expenses may not be indicative of the actual level of expenses that would have been incurred by the company had it been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented. transactions with tyco electronics' and tyco international's directors during fiscal 2008 and 2007, the company engaged in commercial transactions in the normal course of business with companies where tyco electronics' directors were employed and served as officers. purchases from such companies aggregated less than one percent of net sales in fiscal 2008 and 2007. in addition, during periods prior to the separation in fiscal 2007 and 2006, the company engaged in commercial transactions in the normal course of business with companies where tyco international's directors were employed and served as officers. during each of these periods, tyco electronics' purchases from such companies aggregated less than one percent of net sales. separation and distribution agreement upon separation, the company entered into a separation and distribution agreement and other agreements with tyco international and covidien to effect the separation and provide a framework for 162 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 18. related party transactions (continued) the company's relationships with tyco international and covidien after the distribution of the company's and covidien's shares to tyco international's shareholders. these agreements govern the relationships among tyco international, covidien, and the company subsequent to the separation and provide for the allocation to the company and covidien of certain of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, the company, covidien, and tyco international assumed 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation or the distribution brought by any third party. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, tyco electronics may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. tax sharing agreement upon separation, the company entered into a tax sharing agreement, under which the company shares responsibility for certain of its, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the company, covidien, and tyco international share 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to its, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns. the effect of the tax sharing agreement is to indemnify the company for 69% of certain liabilities settled by the company with respect to unresolved legacy tax matters. pursuant to that indemnification, the company has made similar indemnifications to tyco international and covidien with respect to 31% of certain liabilities settled by the companies relating to unresolved legacy tax matters. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. the company will be responsible for all of its own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien will be responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all of the tax liabilities of tyco international that were associated with tyco international subsidiaries that are included in tyco electronics following the separation became tyco electronics' tax liabilities upon separation. although tyco electronics has agreed to share certain tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, tyco electronics remains primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement, tyco electronics would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in 163 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 18. related party transactions (continued) addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, the company could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, the company may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed upon share of its, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. 19. income taxes significant components of the income tax provision for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) current: united states: federal $ 132 $ 45 $ (181 ) state (21 ) 2 (25 ) non-u.s. 273 281 301 current income tax provision 384 328 95 deferred: united states: federal 126 168 75 state 33 (7 ) (31 ) non-u.s. 15 2 (58 ) deferred income tax provision 174 163 (14 ) $ 558 $ 491 $ 81 the u.s. and non-u.s. components of income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest for 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) u.s. $ 334 $ 326 $ 302 non-u.s. 1,823 (7 ) 1,232 income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest $ 2,157 $ 319 $ 1,534 164 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) the reconciliation between u.s. federal income taxes at the statutory rate and the company's provision for income taxes on continuing operations for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) notional u.s. federal income tax expense at the statutory rate $ 755 $ 112 $ 537 adjustments to reconcile to the income tax provision: u.s. state income tax provision (benefit), net 1 (3 ) (36 ) other income tax sharing agreement (198 ) (5 ) class action settlement 8 312 divestitures and impairments 21 proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns (13 ) 9 tax law changes 5 (11 ) tax credits (7 ) (8 ) (12 ) non-u.s. net earnings (1) (135 ) (96 ) (122 ) nondeductible charges 11 6 32 change in accrued income tax liabilities 100 53 21 allocated loss (gain) on retirement of debt 81 (87 ) valuation allowance 23 26 (268 ) adjustment to tax account balances (33 ) other 20 15 16 provision for income taxes $ 558 $ 491 $ 81 (1) excludes asset impairments, nondeductible charges, and other items which are broken out separately in the table. the provision for fiscal 2008 includes a benefit of $198 million primarily related to the pre-tax income of $545 million recognized in connection with our adoption of fin 48, for which no tax was provided. the provision was also impacted by increased accruals in fiscal 2008 of interest related to uncertain tax positions partially offset by a $42 million benefit associated with a favorable settlement with a taxing authority for certain legacy tax issues. in addition, the provision for fiscal 2008 reflects the benefits of increased profitability in operations in lower tax rate jurisdictions, a $33 million benefit related to adjustments to tax account balances, a $25 million increase in the valuation allowance related to restructuring charges, and a $22 million tax detriment recorded in connection with the goodwill impairment charge for which a tax benefit was not fully realized. during fiscal 2008, the company, in connection with the implementation of certain new control processes, completed the analysis and reconciliation of its tax accounts. as a result of this analysis, the company adjusted its tax account balances and recorded a $34 million reduction in income tax liabilities, a $1 million increase in deferred tax liabilities, and a $33 million benefit in the income tax provision. in fiscal 2007, no tax benefits were recorded related to the pre-tax charges for the class action settlement and loss on retirement of debt. the net increase of $26 million of deferred tax asset 165 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) valuation allowances in fiscal 2007 reflects the tax impacts of increased borrowings as a result of the class action settlement and the company's separation from tyco international. the net decrease of $268 million of deferred tax asset valuation allowances in fiscal 2006 is primarily driven by improved profitability in certain jurisdictions, principally the u.s. the company's u.s. results of operations in fiscal 2006 combined with other available evidence, including projections of future taxable income, indicated that it is more likely than not the company will realize additional deferred tax assets in the future, and accordingly, the related valuation allowances were reduced. reflected in the state tax provision line for fiscal 2006 is a $39 million state tax benefit primarily related to the tyco global network divestiture. the allocated loss on retirement of debt in fiscal 2006 is a cumulative one-time benefit of $87 million associated with the receipt of a favorable non-u.s. tax ruling permitting the deduction of historical debt retirement costs. this benefit is partially offset by an increased valuation allowance of $62 million relating to the deferred tax asset associated with net operating losses created by the debt retirement deductions. this $62 million is reflected on the valuation allowance line in the table above. deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and tax purposes. the components of the net deferred income tax asset at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007 are as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 (in millions) deferred tax assets: accrued liabilities and reserves $ 273 $ 253 tax loss and credit carryforwards 2,512 2,135 inventories 46 60 pension and postretirement benefits 175 143 deferred revenue 43 26 interest 227 54 unrecognized tax benefits 392 other 23 89 3,691 2,760 deferred tax liabilities: intangible assets (875 ) (388 ) property, plant, and equipment (94 ) (148 ) other (47 ) (119 ) (1,016 ) (655 ) net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance 2,675 2,105 valuation allowance (873 ) (703 ) net deferred tax asset $ 1,802 $ 1,402 at fiscal year end 2008, the company had approximately $1,524 million of u.s. federal and $187 million of u.s state net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) which will expire in future 166 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) years through 2028. in addition, at fiscal year end 2008, the company had approximately $114 million of u.s. federal tax credit carryforwards, of which $15 million have no expiration and $99 million will expire in future years through 2028, and $42 million of u.s. state tax credits carryforwards which will expire in future years through 2023. the company also had $5 million of u.s. federal contribution carryforwards (tax effected) expiring through 2012 and $87 million of u.s. federal capital loss carryforwards (tax effected) expiring through 2013 at fiscal year end 2008. at fiscal year end 2008, the company had approximately $531 million of net operating loss carryforwards (tax effected) in certain non-u.s. jurisdictions, of which $140 million have no expiration and $391 million will expire in future years through 2022. also, at fiscal year end 2008, there were $3 million of non-u.s. tax credit carryforwards which will expire in future years through 2013 and $19 million of non-u.s. capital loss carryforwards (tax effected) with no expiration. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $873 million and $703 million at fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss, capital loss, and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. the company believes that it will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on its consolidated balance sheet. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109 which requires that a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. at fiscal year end 2008, approximately $41 million of the valuation allowance relates to share-based compensation and will be recorded to equity if certain net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards are utilized. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various regulatory tax authorities. see "income taxes" in note 17 for further information. the calculation of the company's tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where the company conducts its operations. under the provisions of fin 48, the company recognizes liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards as such tax loss carryforwards will be applied against these tax liabilities and will reduce the amount of cash tax payments due upon the eventual settlement with the tax authorities. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from the company's current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by certain taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. if the company's current estimate of tax and interest liabilities is less than the ultimate settlement, an additional charge to expense may result. if the company's current estimate of tax and interest liabilities is more than the ultimate settlement, income tax benefits may be recognized. substantially all of these tax liabilities and related interest are recorded in income taxes on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. the company has provided income taxes for earnings that are currently distributed as well as the taxes associated with several subsidiaries' earnings that are expected to be distributed in fiscal year 2009. no additional provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to 167 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) basis differences in investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of the distribution of such earnings. as of september 26, 2008, certain subsidiaries had approximately $10 billion of undistributed earnings that the company intends to permanently reinvest. a liability could arise if the company's intention to permanently reinvest such earnings were to change and amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. fin 48 effective september 29, 2007, the beginning of fiscal 2008, the company adopted fin 48. as discussed above, during fiscal 2008, the company, in connection with the implementation of certain new control processes, completed the analysis and reconciliation of its tax accounts. as a result of this analysis, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company adjusted certain amounts recorded in connection with the initial adoption of fin 48. these adjustments included an $85 million reduction in contingent tax liabilities, a $1 million increase in deferred tax assets, and an $86 million increase in the opening balance of accumulated earnings. overall, the company recorded a net increase in contingent tax liabilities of $1,197 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $648 million, and a corresponding decrease in the opening balance of accumulated earnings of $549 million in connection with the initial adoption of fin 48 as well as the subsequent adjustment of certain amounts. furthermore, pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, certain contingent tax liabilities related to unresolved tax matters are subject to sharing between tyco international, covidien, and the company. see note 17 for additional information regarding responsibilities for unresolved legacy tax matters. tyco international and covidien would be contractually obligated for $531 million of the company's net increase in contingent tax liabilities recorded in connection with its adoption of fin 48, of which $558 million was recorded in connection with the initial adoption of fin 48 during the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and $27 million was recorded as an adjustment to this amount during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. accordingly, the company recorded this amount in 2008 as other income and recorded the related increase in the receivable from tyco international and covidien for shared contingent tax liabilities. in addition, in connection with the adoption of fin 48, the company reassessed and decreased its fin 45 liability to tyco international and covidien and recorded $14 million of other income. see note 14 for additional information regarding the company's indemnifications under the tax sharing agreement. these adjustments are summarized in the following table: adoption of fin 48 and related tax sharing agreement income: adjustment to opening balance of accumulated earnings tax sharing income (in millions) contingent tax liabilities $ (1,197 ) $ 531 deferred tax assets 648 fin 45 14 $ (549 ) $ 545 168 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) as of september 29, 2007, the company had total unrecognized tax benefits of $2,029 million. if recognized in future periods, $1,864 million of these currently unrecognized tax benefits would impact the income tax provision and effective tax rate. of the remaining currently unrecognized tax benefits, $56 million is associated with discontinued operations. the following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits: (in millions) balance as of september 29, 2007 $ 1,906 adjustments to balance as of september 29, 2007 123 additions related to prior periods tax positions 259 reductions related to prior periods tax positions (312 ) additions related to current period tax positions 42 settlements (1 ) reductions due to lapse of applicable statute of limitations (8 ) balance at september 26, 2008 $ 2,009 as of september 26, 2008, the company had total unrecognized tax benefits of $2,009 million. if recognized in future periods, $1,775 million of these currently unrecognized tax benefits would impact the income tax provision and effective tax rate. of the remaining currently unrecognized tax benefits, $55 million is associated with discontinued operations. the company records accrued interest as well as penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes. as of september 29, 2007, the company had recorded $1,092 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions on the consolidated balance sheet. during fiscal 2008, the company recognized $115 million of interest and penalties on the consolidated and combined statement of operations. as of september 26, 2008, the balance of accrued interest and penalties is $1,106 million, which is recorded in income taxes in the consolidated balance sheet. in fiscal 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco international's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000. tyco international is in the process of appealing certain tax adjustments proposed by the irs related to this period. in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the irs commenced its field examination of certain tyco international u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 2001 through 2004. tyco international's u.s. federal tax filings for years subsequent to 2004 also remain open to examination by the irs. see note 17 for additional information regarding the status of irs examinations. the company files income tax returns on a combined, unitary, or stand-alone basis in multiple state and local jurisdictions, which generally have statutes of limitations ranging from 3 to 5 years. various state and local income tax returns are currently in the process of examination or administrative appeal. the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries file income tax returns in the countries in which they have operations. generally, these countries have statutes of limitations ranging from 3 to 7 years. 169 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 19. income taxes (continued) as of september 26, 2008, under applicable statutes, the following tax years remained subject to examination in the major tax jurisdictions indicated: jurisdiction open years belgium 2006 through 2008 brazil 2003 through 2008 canada 2001 through 2008 china 2003 through 2008 czech republic 2007 through 2008 france 2002 through 2008 germany 2003 through 2008 hong kong 2002 through 2008 india 2001 through 2008 italy 2004 through 2008 japan 2003 through 2008 korea 2003 through 2008 luxembourg 2007 through 2008 netherlands 2007 through 2008 portugal 2004 through 2008 singapore 2001 through 2008 spain 2003 through 2008 switzerland 2006 through 2008 united kingdom 2006 through 2008 united states, federal and state and local 1991 through 2008 in most jurisdictions, taxing authorities retain the ability to review prior tax years and to adjust any net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards from these years that are utilized in a subsequent period. although it is not possible to predict the timing or results of these pending examinations, the company currently does not anticipate there will be significant changes in the next twelve months to the amount of unrecognized tax benefits inherent in the company's consolidated balance sheet as of september 26, 2008. 20. other income (expense), net in fiscal 2008, the company recorded other income of $567 million pursuant to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien, of which $545 million ($1.13 for basic earnings per share and $1.12 for diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2008) related to certain incremental tax liabilities recorded by the company in connection with the adoption of fin 48. see notes 2 and 19 for additional information regarding the adoption of fin 48. for further information regarding the tax sharing agreement, see notes 17 and 18. net other expense of $219 million in fiscal 2007 includes an allocation from tyco international of $232 million for loss on retirement of debt. see note 13 for additional information. additionally, in fiscal 2007, the company recorded other income of $13 million associated with tyco international's and 170 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 20. other income (expense), net (continued) covidien's share of certain contingent tax liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. 21. earnings (loss) per share the computation of basic earnings (loss) per share is based on the company's net income (loss) divided by the basic weighted-average number of common shares. on june 29, 2007, the separation from tyco international was completed in a tax-free distribution to the company's shareholders of one common share of tyco electronics ltd. for every four common shares of tyco international held on june 18, 2007. as a result, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings (loss) per share and basic earnings (loss) per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. the following table sets forth the denominators of the basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share computations: fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) weighted-average shares outstanding: basic 483 497 497 share options and restricted share awards 3 diluted 486 497 497 for fiscal 2008 and 2007, certain share options were not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share because the underlying exercise prices were greater than the average market prices of tyco electronics' common shares and inclusion would be antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per share totaled 21 million and 20 million as of september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. for the year ended september 28, 2007, options to purchase tyco electronics' common shares with the underlying exercise prices less than the average market prices were outstanding, but were excluded from the calculations of diluted loss per share as inclusion of these securities would have been antidilutive. such shares not included in the computation of diluted loss per share totaled 3 million as of september 28, 2007. the separation and distribution agreement entered into pursuant to separation requires that the company issue common shares, as needed, to satisfy convertible debentures issued prior to separation by tyco international and retained by tyco international subsequent to separation. during fiscal 2008, approximately 230,000 shares were issued to satisfy those convertible debentures. those shares are reflected in both weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding based on the underlying date of issuance. as of fiscal year end 2008, the expected number of contingently issuable shares to holders of tyco international convertible debt is immaterial. 171 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 22. equity parent company investment and separation related equity adjustments for all periods prior to june 29, 2007, tyco international's investment in the electronics businesses is shown as parent company investment in the consolidated and combined financial statements. parent company investment represents the historical investment of capital into the company, the company's accumulated net earnings after taxes, and the net effect of transactions with and allocations from tyco international. see note 18 for additional information regarding the allocation to the company of various expenses incurred by tyco international. on june 29, 2007, tyco international completed a distribution of one common share of tyco electronics ltd. for every four common shares of tyco international. following the separation, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. after the separation adjustments were recorded on june 29, 2007, the remaining parent company investment balance, which includes all earnings prior to the separation, was transferred to contributed surplus. net income subsequent to the separation is included in accumulated earnings. during fiscal 2007, the company assumed $1,091 million of contingent tax liabilities from tyco international and recorded a related receivable of $844 million from tyco international and covidien to reflect the 69% indemnification granted by each. these items were recorded as adjustments to contributed surplus on the consolidated and combined financial statements. preferred shares the company has authorized 125,000,000 preferred shares, par value of $0.20 per share, none of which were issued and outstanding at september 26, 2008. rights as to dividends, return of capital, redemption, conversion, voting, and otherwise with respect to the preferred shares may be determined by the company's board of directors on or before the time of issuance. in the event of the liquidation of the company, the holders of any preferred shares then outstanding would be entitled to payment to them of the amount for which the preferred shares were subscribed and any unpaid dividends prior to any payment to the common shareholders. dividends in september 2008, the company's board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per common share. the dividend was paid on november 4, 2008. the declared but unpaid dividend is recorded in accrued and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at fiscal year end 2008. share repurchase program in september 2007, the company's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of $750 million to purchase a portion of the company's outstanding common shares. the company's board of directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program from $750 million to $1,250 million in march 2008 and an additional increase in the program from $1,250 million to $2,000 million in july 2008. in fiscal 2008, the company purchased approximately 37 million common shares for $1,269 million under this program, of which $1,242 million was paid as of september 26, 2008. no common shares were repurchased under this program in fiscal 2007. 172 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 23. accumulated other comprehensive income the components of accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows: currency translation (1)(2) unrealized gain (loss) on securities unrecognized pension and postretirement benefit costs (loss) gain on cash flow hedge accumulated other comprehensive income (in millions) balance at october 1, 2005 $ 657 $ 1 $ (327 ) $ $ 331 pre-tax current period change 242 150 392 income tax expense (53 ) (53 ) balance at september 29, 2006 899 1 (230 ) 670 pre-tax current period change 453 319 (53 ) 719 income tax expense (112 ) (112 ) 1,352 1 (23 ) (53 ) 1,277 adoption of sfas no. 158: pre-tax current period change (347 ) (347 ) income tax benefit 122 122 total (225 ) (225 ) balance at september 28, 2007 1,352 1 (248 ) (53 ) 1,052 pre-tax current period change (22 ) (159 ) 8 (173 ) income tax benefit (1 ) 52 (1 ) 50 balance at september 26, 2008 $ 1,330 $ $ (355 ) $ (46 ) $ 929 (1) during fiscal 2008 and 2006, $6 million and $38 million, respectively, were transferred from currency translation adjustments as a result of the sale of non-u.s. subsidiaries. these gains are included in income (loss) from discontinued operations in the consolidated and combined statement of operations. (2) includes hedge of net investment foreign exchange gains or losses, offsetting foreign exchange gains or losses attributable to the translation of the net investments. 24. share plans prior to separation on june 29, 2007, all equity awards (restricted share awards and share options) held by company employees were granted under the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan or other tyco international equity incentive plans. all equity awards granted by the company subsequent to separation were granted under the tyco electronics ltd. 2007 stock and incentive plan (the "2007 plan"). the 2007 plan is administered by the management development and compensation committee of the board of directors of tyco electronics, which consists exclusively of independent directors of tyco electronics and provides for the award of share options, stock appreciation rights, annual performance bonuses, long-term performance awards, restricted units, deferred stock units, restricted shares, promissory shares, and other share-based awards (collectively, "awards"). the 2007 plan provides for a maximum of 25 million common shares to be issued as awards, subject to adjustment as provided under the terms of the 2007 plan. the 2007 plan allows for the use of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares to be used to satisfy such awards. 173 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) prior to the separation, all employee equity awards were granted by tyco international. at separation, significantly all of tyco international's outstanding restricted share awards issued to company employees prior to september 29, 2006 were converted into restricted share awards of the company at a ratio of one share of the company for every four tyco international common shares. the conversion of those pre-september 29, 2006 awards also resulted in the issuance of one restricted share award in tyco international and covidien. the conversion of pre-september 29, 2006 awards to executives and employees of tyco international and covidien resulted in the issuance of a tyco electronics ltd. restricted share award for every four tyco international awards that existed. the remaining restricted share and share option awards issued to company employees converted into restricted share and share option awards of the company based on a ratio of the company's final pre-separation when-issued share price and tyco international's pre-separation closing share price. all share option awards granted prior to september 29, 2006 to company employees who were identified as "tyco corporate employees" prior to separation converted to share option awards in each of the three post-separation companies based on ratios of the respective company's final pre-separation when-issued share price and tyco international's pre-separation closing share price. all share option award conversions were done in accordance with sections 409a and 424 of the code. upon separation, all performance conditions on outstanding performance share awards to company employees were lifted and those awards converted to restricted share awards in the company's stock only. restricted share awards restricted share awards are granted subject to certain restrictions. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant under the 2007 plan. all restrictions on the award will lapse upon retirement or normal retirement eligibility, death, or disability of the employee. recipients of restricted shares have the right to vote such shares and receive dividends, whereas recipients of restricted units have no voting rights and receive dividend equivalents. for grants that vest based on certain specified performance criteria, the fair market value of the shares or units is expensed over the period of performance, once achievement of criteria is deemed probable. for grants that vest through passage of time, the fair market value of the award at the time of the grant is amortized to expense over the period of vesting. the fair value of restricted share awards is determined based on the market value of the company's shares on the grant date. restricted share awards generally vest in one-third increments over a period of four years beginning in the second year, as determined by the management development and compensation committee, or upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed targeted levels, if applicable. the compensation expense recognized for restricted share awards is net of estimated forfeitures. 174 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) restricted share award activity for grants as of fiscal year end 2008 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: non-vested restricted share awards shares weighted-average grant-date fair value non-vested at september 28, 2007 4,398,545 $ 36.96 granted 239,884 33.94 vested (938,048 ) 36.05 forfeited (372,111 ) 37.17 non-vested at september 26, 2008 3,328,270 $ 36.97 the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco electronics restricted share awards granted during fiscal 2008 and 2007 were $33.94 and $39.69, respectively. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco international restricted share awards granted to tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were $30.34 and $28.96, respectively. as of fiscal year end 2008, there was $61 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested tyco electronics restricted share awards. that cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 fiscal years. deferred stock units deferred stock units ("dsus") are notional units that are tied to the value of tyco electronics common shares with distribution deferred until termination of employment. distribution, when made, will be in the form of actual shares. similar to restricted share grants that vest through the passage of time, the fair value of dsus is determined based on the market value of the company's shares on the grant date and is amortized to expense over the vesting period. recipients of dsus do not have the right to vote such shares and do not have the right to receive cash dividends. however, they have the right to receive dividend equivalents, which are delivered at the same time as the underlying dsus. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant. as of fiscal year end 2008 and 2007, 50,010 and 44,450 vested but undistributed dsus were outstanding, respectively. the grant-date fair value of vested but undistributed dsu grants was expensed immediately and was not significant during fiscal 2008 and post-separation 2007. there were no dsus issued prior to separation. share options share options are granted to purchase tyco electronics common shares at prices which are equal to or greater than the market price of the common shares on the date the option is granted. conditions of vesting are determined at the time of grant under the 2007 plan. options generally vest and become exercisable in equal annual installments over a period of four years and will generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. 175 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) share option activity for grants as of fiscal year end 2008 and changes during the year then ended is presented below: shares weighted- average exercise price weighted- average remaining contractual term aggregate intrinsic value (in years) (in millions) outstanding at september 28, 2007 32,307,571 $ 42.86 granted 128,900 33.15 exercised (2,578,127 ) 21.70 expired (4,125,258 ) 50.30 forfeited (268,066 ) 37.06 outstanding at september 26, 2008 25,465,020 $ 43.81 4.5 27 vested and unvested expected to vest at september 26, 2008 24,844,248 $ 43.97 4.5 27 exercisable at september 26, 2008 21,185,069 45.13 3.8 27 the conversion of tyco international share option awards into tyco electronics share option awards at separation was considered a modification of an award in accordance with sfas no. 123r. as a result, the company compared the fair value of the award immediately prior to the separation to the fair value immediately after the separation to measure incremental compensation cost. the conversion resulted in an increase in the fair value of the awards of $13 million. of that amount, the company recorded non-cash compensation expense of $1 million and $11 million in selling, general, and administrative and separation costs in the consolidated and combined statement of operations for fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. the remaining $1 million of modification expense will be recorded through 2011. as of fiscal year end 2008, there was $35 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested tyco electronics share options granted under tyco electronics share option plans. the cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. share-based compensation effective october 1, 2005, the company adopted the provisions of sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective transition method. as a result, the company's results from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 include incremental share-based compensation expense of $40 million. share-based compensation cost during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 totaled $62 million, $100 million, and $69 million, respectively, of which $58 million, $93 million, and $64 million, respectively, have been included in the consolidated and combined statements of operations within selling, general, and administrative expenses and separation costs. share-based compensation expense of $4 million, $7 million, and $5 million, respectively, has been included in the consolidated and combined statements of operations within income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006. the company has recognized a related tax benefit associated with its share-based compensation arrangements of $17 million, $27 million, and $19 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. 176 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) the grant-date fair value of each option grant is estimated using the black-scholes-merton option pricing model. the fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. use of a valuation model requires management to make certain assumptions with respect to selected model inputs. expected share price volatility was calculated based on the historical volatility of the stock of a composite of peers of tyco electronics and implied volatility derived from exchange traded options on that same composite of peers. the average expected life was based on the contractual term of the option and expected employee exercise and post-vesting employment termination behavior. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. the expected annual dividend per share was based on tyco electronics' expected dividend rate. the compensation expense recognized is net of estimated forfeitures. forfeitures are estimated based on voluntary termination behavior, as well as an analysis of actual option forfeitures. the weighted-average grant-date fair value of tyco electronics options granted during fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007 and the weighted-average assumptions tyco electronics used in the black-scholes-merton option pricing model for fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 2007 weighted-average grant-date fair value $ 8.87 $ 12.34 assumptions: expected share price volatility 30 % 30 % risk free interest rate 3.2 % 4.9 % expected annual dividend per share $ 0.59 $ 0.56 expected life of options (years) 5.0 5.2 the weighted-average grant-date fair values of tyco international options granted to tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 and the weighted-average assumptions tyco international used in the black-scholes-merton option pricing model for pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were as follows: fiscal 2007 2006 weighted-average grant-date fair value $ 9.52 $ 8.96 assumptions: expected share price volatility 32 % 34 % risk free interest rate 4.3 % 4.3 % expected annual dividend per share $ 0.64 $ 0.40 expected life of options (years) 4.9 4.0 the total intrinsic value of tyco electronics options exercised during fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007 were $39 million and $7 million, respectively. the total cash received by the company related to the exercise of options totaled $54 million and $13 million in fiscal 2008 and post-separation fiscal 2007, respectively. the related excess cash tax benefit classified as a financing 177 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 24. share plans (continued) cash inflow for fiscal 2008 and 2007 in the consolidated and combined statement of cash flows was not significant. the total intrinsic value of tyco international options exercised by tyco electronics employees during pre-separation fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was $48 million and $22 million, respectively. employee stock purchase plans the company also maintains employee stock purchase plans for the benefit of employees of certain qualified u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries. the terms of these plans provide employees the right to purchase shares of the company's stock at a stated price and receive certain tax benefits. the significant plans are discussed below. substantially all full-time employees of the company's u.s. subsidiaries and employees of certain qualified non-u.s. subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the tyco electronics ltd. employee stock purchase plan (the "esp plan"). eligible employees authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of shares. the company matches a portion of the employee contribution by contributing an additional 15% of the employee's payroll deduction on the first $40,000 of payroll deductions. all shares purchased under the esp plan are purchased on the open market by a designated broker. participation in the esp plan began in december 2007. the company incurred $1 million in matching contribution expense in fiscal 2008. substantially all full-time employees of the company's united kingdom subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the tyco electronics ltd. savings related share plan (the "uk saye plan"). under the uk saye plan, eligible employees are granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at 85% of the market price at the time of grant. options under the uk saye plan are generally exercisable after a period of three years and expire six months after the date of vesting. participation in the uk saye plan began in february 2008. as of fiscal year end 2008, 123,818 unvested options are outstanding under the uk saye plan; there are no vested options outstanding. non-cash compensation expense related to the uk saye plan was not significant in fiscal 2008. 25. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data the company aggregates its operating segments into four reportable segments based upon the company's internal business structure. see note 1 for a description of the segments in which the company operates. segment performance is evaluated based on net sales and operating income. generally, the company considers all expenses to be of an operating nature, and, accordingly, allocates them to each reportable segment. costs specific to a segment are charged to the segment. corporate expenses, such as headquarters administrative costs, are allocated to the segments based on segment income from operations. net litigation settlement costs and separation costs incurred in fiscal 2008 and 2007 were not allocated to the segments. intersegment sales are not material and are recorded at selling prices that approximate market prices. 178 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 25. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data (continued) net sales and income from operations by business segment are presented in the following table for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006: net sales income from operations fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 11,043 $ 10,111 $ 9,386 $ 1,287 (1) $ 1,339 $ 1,404 network solutions 2,163 1,897 1,740 254 231 268 undersea telecommunications 1,165 565 300 160 38 15 wireless systems 463 386 385 67 39 55 litigation settlement costs, net and separation costs (22 ) (931 ) total $ 14,834 $ 12,959 $ 11,811 $ 1,746 $ 716 $ 1,742 (1) includes goodwill and long-lived asset impairments of $137 million in fiscal 2008. see note 5 for additional information. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006. as the company is not organized by product or service, it is not practicable to disclose net sales by product or service. depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: depreciation and amortization capital expenditures fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 466 $ 436 $ 396 $ 529 $ 521 $ 462 network solutions 48 32 32 65 52 38 undersea telecommunications 26 22 15 14 288 (1) 4 wireless systems 19 24 16 11 14 15 total $ 559 $ 514 $ 459 $ 619 $ 875 $ 519 (1) includes $280 million related to the company's exercise of its option to buy five cable-laying sea vessels in fiscal 2007. see note 9 for additional information. 179 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 25. consolidated and combined segment and geographic data (continued) segment assets and a reconciliation of segment assets to total assets at fiscal year end 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: segment assets fiscal 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) electronic components $ 3,665 $ 3,550 $ 3,320 network solutions 787 704 604 undersea telecommunications 304 155 57 wireless systems 282 234 202 total segment assets (1) 5,038 4,643 4,183 other current assets 2,057 5,353 2,503 non-current assets 14,505 13,692 12,405 total assets $ 21,600 $ 23,688 $ 19,091 (1) segment assets are comprised of accounts receivable and inventory. net sales by geographic region for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 and net property, plant, and equipment by geographic area at fiscal year end 2008, 2007, and 2006 were as follows: net sales (1) property, plant, and equipment, net fiscal fiscal 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) united states $ 4,619 $ 3,950 $ 3,730 $ 1,093 $ 1,109 $ 1,105 other americas 642 514 460 46 52 42 europe/middle east/africa 5,515 4,816 4,264 1,405 1,325 1,166 asia-pacific 4,058 3,679 3,357 973 926 659 total $ 14,834 $ 12,959 $ 11,811 $ 3,517 $ 3,412 $ 2,972 (1) net sales from external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale. 180 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 26. quarterly financial data (unaudited) summarized quarterly financial data for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows: fiscal 2008 first quarter (1) second quarter (2) third quarter (3) fourth quarter (4) (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 3,558 $ 3,662 $ 3,908 $ 3,706 gross income 892 970 997 911 income from continuing operations 868 302 317 107 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 81 (1 ) 13 95 net income 949 301 330 202 basic earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.75 $ 0.62 $ 0.66 $ 0.23 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.16 0.03 0.20 net income 1.91 0.62 0.69 0.43 diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.74 $ 0.62 $ 0.66 $ 0.23 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.16 0.02 0.20 net income 1.90 0.62 0.68 0.43 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: basic 496 486 478 470 diluted 499 489 482 473 (1) income from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $21 million of net restructuring and other charges and $592 million of income pursuant to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien. net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $81 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) income from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $23 million of litigation settlement costs, $25 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $13 million of income pursuant to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien. (3) income from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $16 million of net restructuring and other charges. net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $13 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 includes $123 million of net restructuring and other charges, $137 million of goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges, $39 million of other expense related to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and covidien, and $33 million of income tax benefit related to the analysis and reconciliation of tax accounts. net income includes $95 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. 181 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 26. quarterly financial data (unaudited) (continued) fiscal 2007 first quarter (1) second quarter third quarter (2) fourth quarter (3) (in millions, except per share data) net sales $ 2,975 $ 3,204 $ 3,292 $ 3,488 gross income 787 832 837 883 income (loss) from continuing operations 235 281 (933 ) 239 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 46 (4 ) (435 ) 17 net income (loss) 281 277 (1,368 ) 256 basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.47 $ 0.57 $ (1.88 ) $ 0.48 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.10 (0.01 ) (0.87 ) 0.04 net income (loss) 0.57 0.56 (2.75 ) 0.52 diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.47 $ 0.57 $ (1.88 ) $ 0.48 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 0.10 (0.01 ) (0.87 ) 0.03 net income (loss) 0.57 0.56 (2.75 ) 0.51 weighted-average number of shares outstanding: (4) basic 497 497 497 496 diluted 497 497 497 500 (1) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $46 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) loss from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $891 million of net litigation settlement costs, $25 million of separation costs, $25 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $232 million of allocated loss on retirement of debt. net loss includes a $435 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 includes $19 million of separation costs, $50 million of net restructuring and other charges, and $13 million of other income related to the accretion of interest on certain contingent tax liabilities relating to unresolved tax matters of legacy tyco international. net loss includes $17 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) at separation, on june 29, 2007, the company had 497 million common shares outstanding. the same number of shares is being used for both diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share for all periods prior to the date of separation as no tyco electronics equity awards were outstanding prior to the separation. the computation of diluted loss per share excludes non-vested restricted shares and share options of 4 million for the quarter ending june 29, 2007 as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 182 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. in december 2006, prior to the separation, tegsa, a 100% owned subsidiary of tyco electronics ltd., was formed. tegsa, a luxembourg company, is a holding company that owns directly, or indirectly, all of the operating subsidiaries of tyco electronics ltd. tegsa is the obligor under the company's senior notes, five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility, and commercial paper all of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, tyco electronics ltd. the following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for tyco electronics ltd., tegsa, and all other subsidiaries that are not providing a guarantee of debt but which represent assets of tegsa, using the equity method. consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) net sales $ $ $ 14,834 $ $ 14,834 cost of sales 11,064 11,064 gross income 3,770 3,770 selling, general, and administrative expenses 41 10 1,629 1,680 litigation settlement, net 22 22 restructuring and other charges, net 185 185 impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 137 137 income (loss) from operations (63 ) (10 ) 1,819 1,746 interest income 32 32 interest expense (180 ) (8 ) (188 ) other income, net 567 567 equity in net income of subsidiaries 1,682 1,788 (3,470 ) equity in net income of subsidiaries of discontinued operations 188 188 (376 ) intercompany interest and fees (25 ) 84 (59 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,782 1,870 2,351 (3,846 ) 2,157 income taxes (558 ) (558 ) minority interest (5 ) (5 ) income from continuing operations 1,782 1,870 1,788 (3,846 ) 1,594 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 188 188 net income $ 1,782 $ 1,870 $ 1,976 $ (3,846 ) $ 1,782 183 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) net sales $ $ $ 12,959 $ $ 12,959 cost of sales 9,620 9,620 gross income 3,339 3,339 selling, general, and administrative expenses 27 (34 ) 1,607 1,600 litigation settlement, net 887 887 separation costs 44 44 restructuring and other charges, net 92 92 income (loss) from operations (914 ) 34 1,596 716 interest income 11 42 53 interest expense (105 ) (126 ) (231 ) other (expense) income, net (232 ) 13 (219 ) equity in net income of subsidiaries 736 921 (1,657 ) equity in net loss of subsidiaries of discontinued operations (376 ) (376 ) 752 intercompany interest and fees 107 (107 ) income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest (554 ) 360 1,418 (905 ) 319 income taxes (491 ) (491 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) income (loss) from continuing operations (554 ) 360 921 (905 ) (178 ) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (376 ) (376 ) net income (loss) $ (554 ) $ 360 $ 545 $ (905 ) $ (554 ) 184 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) net sales $ $ 11,811 $ 11,811 cost of sales 8,617 8,617 gross income 3,194 3,194 selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,445 1,445 restructuring and other charges, net 7 7 income from operations 1,742 1,742 interest income 48 48 interest expense (256 ) (256 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,534 1,534 income taxes (81 ) (81 ) minority interest (6 ) (6 ) income from continuing operations 1,447 1,447 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (246 ) (246 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,201 1,201 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (8 ) (8 ) net income $ $ 1,193 $ 1,193 185 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating balance sheet as of september 26, 2008 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ 1,086 $ $ 1,086 accounts receivable, net 2,726 2,726 inventories 2,312 2,312 intercompany receivables 1 23 (24 ) prepaid expenses and other current assets 2 86 679 767 deferred income taxes 204 204 total current assets 3 86 7,030 (24 ) 7,095 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,517 3,517 goodwill 7,068 7,068 intangible assets, net 486 486 deferred income taxes 1,915 1,915 investment in subsidiaries 11,069 12,957 (24,026 ) intercompany loans receivable 167 6,551 5,500 (12,218 ) receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 1,218 1,218 other assets 21 280 301 total assets $ 11,239 $ 19,615 $ 27,014 $ (36,268 ) $ 21,600 liabilities and shareholders' equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ $ $ 20 $ $ 20 accounts payable 27 1,442 1,469 accrued and other current liabilities 83 81 1,432 1,596 deferred revenue 247 247 intercompany payables 23 1 (24 ) total current liabilities 133 81 3,142 (24 ) 3,332 long-term debt 2,998 163 3,161 intercompany loans payable 33 5,467 6,718 (12,218 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 721 721 deferred income taxes 289 289 income taxes 2,291 2,291 other liabilities 723 723 total liabilities 166 8,546 14,047 (12,242 ) 10,517 minority interest 10 10 equity 11,073 11,069 12,957 (24,026 ) 11,073 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 11,239 $ 19,615 $ 27,014 $ (36,268 ) $ 21,600 186 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating balance sheet as of september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 2 $ $ 940 $ $ 942 accounts receivable, net 2,594 2,594 inventories 2,049 2,049 class action settlement escrow 928 928 class action settlement receivable 2,064 2,064 intercompany receivables 181 29 (84 ) (126 ) prepaid expenses and other current assets (2 ) 591 589 deferred income taxes 325 325 assets of discontinued operations 505 505 total current assets 3,173 29 6,920 (126 ) 9,996 property, plant, and equipment, net 3,412 3,412 goodwill 7,177 7,177 intangible assets, net 526 526 deferred income taxes 1,397 1,397 investment in subsidiaries 11,136 13,329 (24,465 ) investment in subsidiaries of discontinued operations 239 239 (478 ) intercompany loans receivable 6,267 5,024 (11,291 ) receivable from tyco international ltd. and covidien ltd. 844 844 other assets 2 334 336 total assets $ 14,548 $ 19,866 $ 25,634 $ (36,360 ) $ 23,688 liabilities and shareholders' equity current liabilities: current maturities of long-term debt $ $ $ 5 $ $ 5 accounts payable 1 1,342 1,343 class action settlement liability 2,992 2,992 accrued and other current liabilities 61 3 1,353 1,417 deferred revenue 181 181 intercompany payables 29 181 (172 ) (38 ) liabilities of discontinued operations 266 266 total current liabilities 3,083 184 2,975 (38 ) 6,204 long-term debt 3,283 90 3,373 intercompany loans payable 88 5,024 6,267 (11,379 ) long-term pension and postretirement liabilities 607 607 deferred income taxes 271 271 income taxes 1,242 1,242 other liabilities 599 599 total liabilities 3,171 8,491 12,051 (11,417 ) 12,296 minority interest 15 15 equity 11,377 11,375 13,568 (24,943 ) 11,377 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 14,548 $ 19,866 $ 25,634 $ (36,360 ) $ 23,688 187 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash (used in) provided by continuing operating activities $ (649 ) $ (38 ) $ 1,701 $ $ 1,014 net cash used in discontinued operating activities (25 ) (25 ) net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (649 ) (38 ) 1,676 989 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (619 ) (619 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 42 42 acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (3 ) (3 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (2 ) (2 ) class action settlement escrow 936 936 proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operations, net of cash retained by business sold 571 571 decrease in intercompany loans (222 ) 159 63 other (8 ) (16 ) (24 ) net cash provided by (used in) continuing investing activities 706 159 (27 ) 63 901 net cash used in discontinued investing activities (6 ) (6 ) net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 706 159 (33 ) 63 895 cash flows from financing activities: net increase in commercial paper 630 630 proceeds from long-term debt 800 100 900 repayment of long-term debt (1,750 ) (1 ) (1,751 ) changes in parent company equity 1,398 199 (1,597 ) repurchase of common shares (1,242 ) (1,242 ) payment of common dividends (271 ) (271 ) proceeds from exercise of share options 54 54 transfer to discontinued operations (80 ) (80 ) loan borrowing from parent 63 (63 ) minority interest distributions paid (11 ) (11 ) other 2 (3 ) (1 ) net cash used in continuing financing activities (59 ) (121 ) (1,529 ) (63 ) (1,772 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 33 33 net cash used in financing activities (59 ) (121 ) (1,496 ) (63 ) (1,739 ) effect of currency translation on cash 1 1 net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (2 ) 148 146 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (2 ) (2 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 2 940 942 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ $ $ 1,086 $ $ 1,086 188 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2007 tyco electronics ltd. tyco electronics group s.a. other subsidiaries consolidating adjustments total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash (used in) provided by continuing operating activities $ (74 ) $ (264 ) $ 1,846 $ $ 1,508 net cash provided by discontinued operating activities 17 17 net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (74 ) (264 ) 1,863 1,525 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (875 ) (875 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 41 41 purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (4 ) (4 ) class action settlement escrow (928 ) (928 ) proceeds from divestiture of discontinued operation, net of cash retained by business sold 227 227 decrease in intercompany loans 2,011 (2,011 ) other 1 1 net cash (used in) provided by continuing investing activities (928 ) 2,011 (610 ) (2,011 ) (1,538 ) net cash provided by discontinued investing activities 10 10 net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (928 ) 2,011 (600 ) (2,011 ) (1,528 ) cash flows from financing activities: proceeds from long-term debt 5,676 5,676 repayment of long-term debt (2,393 ) (62 ) (2,455 ) allocated debt activity (3,743 ) (3,743 ) net transactions with former parent 875 (2,956 ) 3,193 1,112 changes in parent company equity 129 1,669 (1,798 ) proceeds from exercise of share options 13 13 transfers to discontinued operations (134 ) (134 ) loan borrowing from parent (2,011 ) 2,011 minority interest distributions paid (7 ) (7 ) other (13 ) 5 (8 ) net cash provided by (used in) continuing financing activities 1,004 (1,747 ) (814 ) 2,011 454 net cash used in discontinued financing activities (23 ) (23 ) net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,004 (1,747 ) (837 ) 2,011 431 effect of currency translation on cash 46 46 net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2 472 474 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (4 ) (4 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 472 472 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ 2 $ $ 940 $ $ 942 189 tyco electronics ltd. notes to consolidated and combined financial statements (continued) 27. tyco electronics group s.a. (continued) consolidating statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 tyco electronics ltd. other subsidiaries total (in millions) cash flows from operating activities: net cash provided by continuing operating activities $ $ 1,624 $ 1,624 net cash provided by discontinued operating activities 39 39 net cash provided by operating activities 1,663 1,663 cash flows from investing activities: capital expenditures (519 ) (519 ) proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment 6 6 acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (23 ) (23 ) purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (4 ) (4 ) other 27 27 net cash used in continuing investing activities (513 ) (513 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (126 ) (126 ) net cash used in investing activities (639 ) (639 ) cash flows from financing activities: repayment of long-term debt (113 ) (113 ) allocated debt activity (713 ) (713 ) net transactions with former parent (74 ) (74 ) transfers from discontinued operations (7 ) (7 ) minority interest distributions paid (12 ) (12 ) other (4 ) (4 ) net cash used in continuing financing activities (923 ) (923 ) net cash provided by discontinued financing activities 95 95 net cash used in financing activities (828 ) (828 ) effect of currency translation on cash (1 ) (1 ) net increase in cash and cash equivalents 195 195 less: net increase in cash and cash equivalents related to discontinued operations (8 ) (8 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of fiscal year 285 285 cash and cash equivalents at end of fiscal year $ $ 472 $ 472 190 tyco electronics ltd. schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts fiscal years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, and september 29, 2006 description balance at beginning of year additions charged to costs and expenses acquisitions, divestitures and other deductions balance at end of year (in millions) fiscal 2008 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable $ 57 $ 5 $ $ (20 ) $ 42 fiscal 2007 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 56 9 4 (12 ) 57 fiscal 2006 allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 67 1 1 (13 ) 56 191 quicklinks tyco electronics ltd. table of contents special note about forward-looking statements part i quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forwards and swaps. the objective is to manage our foreign currency exposures on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and forecasted transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 26, 2008 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $95 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $116 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 28, 2007 market rates would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $59 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $72 million. however, such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. 65 interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate and/or currency exposure. to manage these exposures and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used and may use in the future interest rate swaps to convert a portion of the fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of the variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). at september 26, 2008, we had outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of our 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of our 6.00% senior notes. at september 28, 2007, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. based on our floating rate debt balances of $1,147 million and $1,250 million at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we have used and may use in the future forward or option contracts. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to twenty-four months and periodically enter into commodity forward or option contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 26, 2008, we had entered into commodity forward contracts, specifically related to gold, designated as cash flow hedges for a notional value of $21 million. a 10% appreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 26, 2008 prices would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of prices would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. see note 15 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business current and future conditions in the global economy and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. as a result of global economic trends, the credit market crisis, lower consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. if the global economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additionally, we are heavily dependent on the end market industry dynamics for our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand patterns of these markets. our sales are dependent on certain end markets that are impacted by consumer as well as industrial and infrastructure spending, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those markets. for example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, is experiencing a significant downturn described below. the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation, which reflects current market conditions. the aerospace and defense industry, which accounted for 6% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, has similarly undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. these periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are dependent on the automotive industry which is experiencing significant declines in the current economic environment. approximately 27% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 were to customers in the automotive industry. automotive manufacturers globally are experiencing significant declines in sales of vehicles from the current economic downturn and credit conditions. additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. 12 table of contents we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 27% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change and has been affected by declines in consumer and business spending due to global economic conditions. additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our failure to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. approximately 7% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends primarily on underlying business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products, which has been affected by reduced spending due to global economic conditions. the amount of this demand and therefore our sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including the rate of technological change, degree of consumer acceptance of new products, and general economic conditions. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and credit markets globally have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. if these conditions continue or worsen, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill could negatively affect our results of operations. we test goodwill allocated to reporting units for impairment annually during the fiscal fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances exist that indicate that a reporting unit's carrying value may exceed its fair value. we completed our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and determined that no impairment existed. significant judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. in making this assessment, we rely on a number of factors including, among others, operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. there are inherent 13 table of contents uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying each to the analysis of the recoverability of goodwill. during the second quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of declines in sales and profitability of the automotive and communications and industrial solutions reporting units of the electronic components segment and the circuit protection reporting unit of the specialty products segment, we determined that an indicator of impairment had occurred and goodwill impairment testing of these reporting units was required. the testing for goodwill impairment is a two step process. in performing step i of impairment testing, we determined the fair value of the automotive, communications and industrial solutions, and circuit protection reporting units based on a discounted cash flows analysis incorporating our estimate of future operating performance. the results of the step i goodwill impairment tests indicated that the book value of each of the reporting units exceeded its fair value. the failure of the step i goodwill impairment tests triggered step ii goodwill impairment tests in which we determined the implied fair value of the reporting units' goodwill by comparing the reporting units' fair value determined in step i to the fair value of the reporting units' net assets, including unrecognized intangible assets. the step ii goodwill impairment tests resulted in a full impairment charge of $2,088 million for the automotive reporting unit and partial impairment charges of $1,347 million and $112 million for the communications and industrial solutions and circuit protection reporting units, respectively, in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. should economic conditions deteriorate further or remain depressed for a prolonged period of time, estimates of future cash flows for our reporting units may be insufficient to support carrying value and the goodwill assigned to it, requiring us to perform additional tests for impairment. further impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue growth. the markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological change. our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. there are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure each year to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2%. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace and defense industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their 14 table of contents ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, and zinc. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including gold, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. over the last three years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 50% of our net sales for fiscal 2009 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to the development cycles. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with the current credit crisis, have caused significant volatility in interest rates and equity prices, which could decrease the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. we also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. if 15 table of contents these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets is found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. future acquisitions may not be successful. we regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings. we cannot assure you, however, that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. 16 table of contents divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. while we have substantially completed the streamlining of our portfolio that we began over two years ago, we may in the future evaluate the performance of specific businesses and may continue to sell businesses or product lines. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. we are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability. our workforce, manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities, markets, customers, and suppliers are located throughout the world, and we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; variations in lengths of payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. we have sizeable operations in china, including manufacturing operations, and in fiscal 2009, 14% of our net sales were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such 17 table of contents violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and non-u.s. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. environmental laws outside of the united states are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction on hazardous substances, end of life vehicle and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. we cannot predict the extent to which these laws will proliferate in other jurisdictions or 18 table of contents expand to address other materials or other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement or that we will not pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the size and importance of the patent or trademark in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, and product liability. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit facility contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt (as defined in the credit facility) to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined in the credit facility), and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to repurchase the notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. 19 table of contents risks relating to our separation from tyco international we are responsible for a portion of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities, including those relating to shareholder litigation. in connection with our separation from tyco international on june 29, 2007, we, tyco international, and its former healthcare businesses ("covidien") entered into a separation and distribution agreement which governs the relationships among us, tyco international, and covidien subsequent to the separation and provided for the allocation among us, tyco international, and covidien of tyco international's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement among the parties, we, tyco international, and covidien have agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of certain of tyco international's contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation, any actions with respect to the separation or the distribution brought by any third party and tax liabilities for periods prior to and including the date of separation of june 29, 2007. for more information on the contingent tax liabilities, see "we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date." contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which were allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. prior to the announcement by tyco international of the planned separation of tyco electronics and covidien in january 2006, tyco international and certain of its former directors and officers were named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action lawsuits, most of which were part of a class action settlement of 32 lawsuits reached in 2007 and others of which have been settled subsequently, for which we were responsible for 31%. we are responsible for 31% of potential liabilities that may arise upon the resolution of the remaining pending litigation. of the remaining securities cases, three remain outstanding, for which we have established a reserve. if the unresolved securities proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco international, our share of any additional potential losses under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. tyco international has the right to control the defense and settlement of outstanding securities litigation, subject to certain limitations. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlements of outstanding litigation may not be in our best interests. furthermore, in the event of any future settlements, we may have limited notice before we would be required to pay our portion of the settlement amount. moreover, tyco international stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that we, tyco international, and covidien each will be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations arising from the tyco international shareholder litigation. the stipulation also provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties are jointly and severally liable for the defaulting party's obligations. 20 table of contents we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, tyco international, and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, became our tax liabilities. although we agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that we have assessed under the uncertain tax position provisions of accounting standards codification ("asc") 740 (income taxes) have been reflected as a liability on the consolidated and combined financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. we recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the 21 table of contents distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco international, and covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, then we, tyco international, or covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. risks relating to our swiss jurisdiction of incorporation legislative and other proposals in switzerland, the united states, and other jurisdictions could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. various u.s. and non-u.s. legislative proposals and other initiatives have been directed at companies incorporated in lower-tax jurisdictions. we believe that recently there has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and other initiatives. if adopted, these proposed changes could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. we believe that, since becoming a swiss corporation in june 2009, we are less likely to be subject to such legislation and other initiatives 22 table of contents because switzerland has both a generally imposed corporate income tax and comprehensive tax treaties with the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. however, we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation or initiative and we cannot assure you that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. legislation in the united states could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to u.s. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that move their corporate locations abroad. we believe that we are less likely to be subject to such proposals since becoming a swiss corporation in june 2009. however, we cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. therefore, we cannot assure you that any such legislative action will not apply to us. in addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. as a swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. as a swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay distributions or dividends on our shares without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. our articles of association authorize us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. moreover, under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. while we do not believe that swiss law requirements relating to our capital management will have an adverse effect on us, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. 23 table of contents swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of switzerland. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of united states jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in swiss courts as they are contrary to that nation's public policy. swiss corporate law, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. these differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. risks relating to our shares the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by the global economic downturn and deterioration of credit conditions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies. we might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. in order to make distributions on our shares to shareholders free of swiss withholding tax, we anticipate making any future distributions to shareholders, prior to january 1, 2011, through a reduction of registered share capital or, after january 1, 2011, out of registered share capital or contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax purposes). distributions to our shareholders in the form of a reduction of registered share capital are not subject to swiss withholding tax. to date since we became a swiss corporation, all distributions on our shares recommended by our board of directors for approval by our shareholders and approved by our shareholders have been distributions through reductions in our registered share capital. if we were to make future distributions to our shareholders through a dividend out of contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax purposes) rather than through a reduction of registered share capital prior to january 1, 2011, any dividends that we would 24 table of contents pay generally would be subject to a swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. the withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the swiss federal tax administration. a u.s. holder that qualifies for benefits under the convention between the united states of america and the swiss confederation for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or for a full refund if the shareholder is a qualified pension fund). a swiss tax resident holder may apply any tax withheld for a full credit against swiss income tax upon proper declaration of the related income in such swiss resident holder's personal swiss income tax return. there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve distributions through reductions in our registered share capital in the future, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction of registered share capital, or that swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. in addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. under swiss corporate law, we are required to state our year-end unconsolidated swiss statutory financial statements in swiss francs. although distributions that are effected through a return of registered share capital or contributed surplus are expected to be paid in u.s. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions are required to be stated in swiss francs. if the u.s. dollar were to increase in value relative to the swiss franc, the u.s. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without swiss withholding tax will decrease. we have certain restrictions on our ability to repurchase our shares. the swiss code of obligations limits a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. we and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for swiss tax purposes) are available. the aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. we may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if the shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by swiss law for swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). this provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. the board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements as set forth in our articles of association. 25 table of contents certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these provisions, among others: shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors, both of which provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in the case of issuances from authorized capital, until june 22, 2011 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. we note that swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. in addition, the new york stock exchange, on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign exchange forward and swap contracts. the objective is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 25, 2009 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 26, 2008 market rates would have increased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $95 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would have decreased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $116 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital and money markets to fund our operations. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure and to minimize overall interest cost, we have used, and may in the future use, interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (fair value hedges) and/or convert a portion of variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (cash flow hedges). during fiscal 2009, we terminated interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of our 6.55% senior notes and $200 million principal amount of our 6.00% senior notes that had been outstanding as of september 26, 2008. see note 13 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on the termination of the interest rate swaps. at september 25, 2009, we had no floating rate debt outstanding. based on our floating rate debt balance of $1,147 million at 72 table of contents september 26, 2008, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $6 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we have used and may use in the future forward and option contracts. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to twenty-four months and periodically enter into commodity forward or option contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, our commodity hedges, which related to purchases of gold, were in a gain position of $1 million and $2 million, respectively, and had a notional value of $29 million and $21 million, respectively. a 10% appreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 25, 2009 prices would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $3 million, while a 10% depreciation of prices would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $3 million. a 10% appreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 26, 2008 prices would have increased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of prices would have decreased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. see note 13 to the consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information on financial instruments.risk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, natural disasters, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or worldwide, including the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels, any of which could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, and ability to obtain financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. if regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. our sales are dependent on certain end markets that are impacted by consumer, industrial, and infrastructure spending, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those markets. for example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 35% of our net sales in fiscal 2010, is still below fiscal 2008 levels as described below. the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales in fiscal 2010, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. the aerospace, defense, and marine industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2010, has undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are dependent on the automotive industry which experienced significant declines in the recent economic environment. approximately 35% of our net sales for fiscal 2010 were to customers in the automotive industry. automotive manufacturers globally have experienced significantly lower levels of vehicle sales as a result of the 2008 to 2009 economic downturn and credit conditions. although sales have increased during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009 levels, sales still remain below fiscal 2008 levels. additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. 12 we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 16% of our net sales for fiscal 2010 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change, and was and remains affected by declines in consumer and business spending. additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our inability to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. approximately 9% of our net sales for fiscal 2010 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends on underlying business and consumer demand for computer and consumer electronics products, as well as the market share of our customers. demand was and remains affected by reduced spending. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue. substantially all of the markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products, to modify existing products, and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. there are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. we have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2%. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, zinc, and other precious metals. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of many of 13 these raw materials, including gold and copper, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. in recent years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. approximately 57% of our net sales for fiscal 2010 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect non-u.s. dollar revenue to represent a significant and potentially increased portion of our future net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace, defense, and marine industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. the adc telecommunications, inc. acquisition and future acquisitions may not be successful. in july 2010, we announced our entry into an agreement to acquire adc telecommunications, inc. ("adc"), and we regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings. risks associated with the acquisition of adc include the risk that the transaction may not be consummated, the risk that regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated, risks associated with our ability to issue debt to fund a portion of the purchase price, the risk that adc will not be integrated successfully into tyco electronics, and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings, and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than 14 expected. we also cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with other acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to undertake an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. we also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will choose not to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 15 a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity, which has and could further reduce the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. in addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. if these conditions continue or worsen, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. while we have substantially completed the streamlining of our portfolio that we began over three years ago, we may in the future evaluate the performance of specific businesses and products and may continue to sell businesses or product lines. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill could negatively affect our results of operations. we test goodwill allocated to reporting units for impairment annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances exist that indicate that a reporting unit's carrying value may exceed its fair value. we completed our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and determined that no impairment existed. significant judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. in making this assessment, we rely on a number of factors including, among others, operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying each to the analysis of the recoverability of goodwill. should economic conditions further deteriorate or remain depressed, estimates of future cash flows for our reporting units may be insufficient to support carrying value and the goodwill assigned to it, requiring us to test for impairment. impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. 16 if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. further, any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability. our workforce, manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities, markets, customers, and suppliers are located throughout the world, and we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; variations in lengths of payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. we have sizeable operations in china, including manufacturing operations, and in fiscal 2010, 16% of our net sales were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot 17 assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; greenhouse gas emissions; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. in addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction of hazardous substances, end of life vehicle, and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of 18 certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. these laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit facility contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt (as defined in the credit facility) to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (as defined in the credit facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding notes indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the bank credit facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our credit facility or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. 19 table of contents risks relating to our separation from tyco international we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. in connection with our separation from tyco international in 2007, we, tyco international, and its former healthcare businesses ("covidien") entered into a tax sharing agreement pursuant to which we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, tyco international, and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, became our tax liabilities. although we agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that we have assessed under the uncertain tax position provisions of accounting standards codification ("asc") 740, income taxes , have been reflected as liabilities on the consolidated financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. we recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as 20 table of contents the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from outside legal counsel confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco international, and covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, then we, tyco international, or covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. risks relating to our swiss jurisdiction of incorporation legislative and other proposals in switzerland, the united states, and other jurisdictions could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. various u.s. and non-u.s. legislative proposals and other initiatives have been directed at companies incorporated in lower-tax jurisdictions. we believe that recently there has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and other initiatives. if adopted, these proposed changes could 21 table of contents materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. we believe that, since becoming a swiss corporation in june 2009, we are less likely to be subject to such legislation and other initiatives because switzerland has both a generally imposed corporate income tax and comprehensive tax treaties with the united states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. however, we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation or initiative, and we cannot assure you that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. legislation in the united states could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to u.s. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate locations abroad. we believe that we are less likely to be subject to such proposals since becoming a swiss corporation in june 2009. however, we cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. therefore, we cannot assure you that any such legislative action will not apply to us. in addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. as a swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. as a swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. our articles of association authorize us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years, which authorization period ends on june 22, 2011 and is subject to shareholder approval for a two-year extension again at our next annual general meeting of shareholders, and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. moreover, under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. while we do not believe that swiss law requirements relating to our capital management will have an adverse 22 table of contents effect on us, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of switzerland. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of united states jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in swiss courts as they are contrary to that nation's public policy. swiss corporate law, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. these differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. risks relating to our shares the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by global economic conditions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies. we might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. in order to make distributions on our shares to shareholders free of swiss withholding tax, we anticipate making any future distributions to shareholders, prior to june 1, 2011, through a reduction of registered share capital or, after june 1, 2011, through a reduction of registered share capital or contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax purposes). distributions to our shareholders in the form of a reduction of registered share capital are not subject to swiss withholding tax. to date, since we became a swiss corporation, all distributions on our shares approved by our shareholders have been distributions through reductions in our registered share capital. there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from 23 table of contents contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax purposes) or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. in addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. under swiss corporate law, we are required to state our year end unconsolidated swiss statutory financial statements in swiss francs. although distributions that are effected through a return of registered share capital or contributed surplus are expected to be paid in u.s. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions are required to be stated in swiss francs. if the u.s. dollar were to increase in value relative to the swiss franc, the u.s. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without swiss withholding tax will decrease. we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares. the swiss code of obligations regulates a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. we and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for swiss tax purposes) are available. the aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. we may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by swiss law for swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). this provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. the board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements as set forth in our articles of association. certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these provisions, among others: shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors, both of which provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or 24 table of contents delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in the case of issuances from authorized capital, until june 22, 2011 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. we note that swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. in addition, the new york stock exchange, on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we use foreign currency forward and swap contracts. the objective is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 24, 2010 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $12 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would increase the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $15 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 25, 2009 market rates would have decreased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would have increased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $2 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. 70 table of contents interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, from time to time, in capital and money markets to fund our operations and capital needs. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure and to minimize overall interest cost, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable rate debt (via fair value hedge designation) and/or convert a portion of variable rate debt into fixed-rate debt (via cash flow hedge designation). we use forward starting interest rate swaps and swaptions to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt (via cash flow hedge designation). we also utilize interest rate swap and swaption contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges, to manage interest rate exposure on cash and cash equivalents, and we utilize a swap to manage exposure related to certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation liabilities. during fiscal 2010, we purchased options to enter into interest rate swaps ("swaptions") and entered into forward starting interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure prior to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt when our 6.00% senior notes mature in fiscal 2012. the swaptions and forward starting interest rate swaps are based on a total notional amount of $400 million. also during fiscal 2010, we entered into an interest rate swap designated as a fair value hedge on $50 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes. based on our floating rate debt balance of $150 million at september 24, 2010, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $1 million. at september 25, 2009, we had no floating rate debt outstanding. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts, all of which are designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to twenty-four months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 24, 2010, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold and silver, were in a gain position of $12 million and had a notional value of $108 million. at september 25, 2009, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, were in a gain position of $1 million and had a notional value of $29 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold and a troy ounce of silver from the september 24, 2010 prices would change the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $12 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold from the september 25, 2009 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $3 million. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on financial instruments.risk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, natural disasters, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or worldwide, including the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels including credit rating downgrades and defaults on sovereign debt, any of which could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, and ability to obtain financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. if regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. for example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 34% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, has experienced a significant downturn in recent years as described below. the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. the aerospace, defense, and marine industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, has undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are dependent on the automotive industry which has experienced significant declines in recent years. approximately 34% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 were to customers in the automotive industry. in recent years, automotive manufacturers globally have experienced lower levels of vehicle sales as a result of the 2009 economic downturn and credit conditions. fiscal 2009 and 2010 sales levels were below fiscal 2008 levels. in fiscal 2011, sales increased and improved relative to prior years to reach fiscal 2008 levels. additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 14% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change, and was and remains 12 table of contents affected by declines in consumer and business spending. additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our inability to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. approximately 8% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends on underlying business and consumer demand for computer and consumer electronics products, as well as the market share of our customers. demand was and remains affected by reduced spending. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components, and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality, and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology, and our ability to participate in emerging markets. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue. substantially all of the markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products, to modify existing products, and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. there are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. we have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2%. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, silver, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, zinc, and other precious metals. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries 13 table of contents around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including gold and copper, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. gold has recently traded at an all-time high. in recent years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of certain commodities prices. the success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecasts of planned consumption of the hedged commodity materials. we could experience unanticipated hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones of the drc. as a result, the sec is required to establish new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the drc and adjoining countries in their products. when these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. as a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. approximately 55% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect non-u.s. dollar revenue to represent a significant and likely increased portion of our future net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro or asian currencies, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace, defense, and marine industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. 14 table of contents the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. the adc telecommunications, inc. acquisition and future acquisitions may not be successful. in december 2010, we acquired adc telecommunications, inc. ("adc"), and we regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings. risks associated with the completed acquisition of adc include the risk that we do not fully integrate adc successfully and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings, and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. we also cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with other acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to undertake an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. we could suffer significant business interruptions. our operations and those of our suppliers and customers and the supply chain that supports their operations may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease, or failures of management information or other systems due to internal or external causes. if a business interruption occurs, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. on march 11, 2011, an earthquake occurred near the northeastern coast of japan creating a tsunami that caused extensive damage. our facilities in japan were not materially damaged; however, there were disruptions in our customers' operations in japan as well as in the supply chain that supports their operations. as a result, we experienced a negative impact on our sales and operations in fiscal 2011. we estimate that sales and diluted earnings per share were negatively impacted by $99 million and $0.07 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2011. there can be no assurance that the long-term consequence of the disaster will not adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 15 table of contents our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. we also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will choose not to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity, which has and could further reduce the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. in addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. recent downgrades of credit ratings of sovereign debt, including the u.s., has similarly affected the availability and cost of capital. as a result, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, 16 table of contents including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. while we have completed the divestiture of underperforming or non-strategic businesses and product lines that we began over four years ago, we continue to evaluate specific businesses and products which may result in additional divestitures. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill could negatively affect our results of operations. we test goodwill allocated to reporting units for impairment annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances exist that indicate that a reporting unit's carrying value may exceed its fair value. we completed our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and determined that no impairment existed. significant judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. in making this assessment, we rely on a number of reporting unit specific factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying each to the analysis of the recoverability of goodwill. should economic conditions further deteriorate or remain depressed, estimates of future cash flows for our reporting units may be insufficient to support carrying value and the goodwill assigned to it, requiring us to test for impairment. impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. further, any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 17 table of contents we are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability. our workforce, manufacturing, research, administrative, and sales facilities, markets, customers, and suppliers are located throughout the world, and we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; variations in lengths of payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including sovereign debt levels, inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. we have sizeable operations in china, including 17 manufacturing sites. in addition, 15% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. in addition, standard &amp; poor's recent credit rating downgrade of long-term u.s. sovereign debt, any future downgrade by other rating agencies of long-term u.s. sovereign debt, or downgrades or defaults of sovereign debt of other nations may negatively affect global financial markets and economic conditions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. anti-bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), the u.k. anti-bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; 18 table of contents investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; greenhouse gas emissions; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. in addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction of hazardous substances, end of life vehicle, and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. these laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust 19 table of contents laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit facility contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt (as defined in the credit facility) to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (as defined in the credit facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding notes indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the bank credit facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our credit facility or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. risks relating to our separation from tyco international we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. in connection with our separation from tyco international in 2007, we, tyco international, and its former healthcare businesses ("covidien") entered into a tax sharing agreement pursuant to which we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, tyco international, and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. 20 table of contents all the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, became our tax liabilities. although we agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that we have assessed under the uncertain tax position provisions of accounting standards codification ("asc") 740, income taxes , have been reflected as liabilities on the consolidated financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. we recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. in september 2011, tyco international announced its intention to spin-off two of its businesses to its shareholders, with tyco international remaining as a publicly-traded company. although these transactions are in preliminary stages, we expect that tyco international will continue to meet its legal obligations under the tax sharing agreement. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as 21 table of contents tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from outside legal counsel confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco international, and covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, then we, tyco international, or covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. risks relating to our swiss jurisdiction of incorporation legislative and other proposals in switzerland, the united states, and other jurisdictions could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. various u.s. and non-u.s. legislative proposals and other initiatives have been directed at companies incorporated in lower-tax jurisdictions. we believe that recently there has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and other initiatives as various jurisdictions look for solutions to fiscal deficits. if adopted, these proposed changes could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals or initiatives, and we cannot assure you that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. legislation in the united states could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to u.s. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate 22 table of contents locations abroad. we believe that we are less likely to be subject to such proposals since becoming a swiss corporation in june 2009. however, we cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. therefore, we cannot assure you that any such legislative action will not apply to us. in addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. as a swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management involving the issuance of shares. as a swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares or reclassify reserves on our standalone unconsolidated swiss balance sheet without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. our articles of association allow us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years, which authorization period ends on march 9, 2013, and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. moreover, under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. while we do not believe that swiss law requirements relating to the issuance of shares will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders and such limitations on our capital management flexibility would make our stock less attractive to investors. swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of switzerland. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of united states jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in swiss courts as they are contrary to that nation's public policy. 23 table of contents swiss corporate law, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. these differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. risks relating to our shares the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by global economic conditions and investors' concerns about potential risks to future economic growth; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies and companies that serve end markets important to our business. we might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. in order to make distributions on our shares to shareholders free of swiss withholding tax, we anticipate making distributions to shareholders through a reduction of contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax purposes) or registered share capital. interpretations of recently enacted swiss tax legislation and various proposals in switzerland for tax law and corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from swiss withholding tax. we are in discussions with swiss tax authorities regarding certain administrative aspects of recently enacted swiss tax legislation related to the classification of swiss contributed surplus in our swiss statutory financial statements for tax and statutory reporting purposes. should we not be successful in our discussions, we may need to formally enter into an appeal process in order to gain a favorable ruling. should we not gain favorable resolution, we may be required to make certain statutory reclassifications to swiss contributed surplus in our swiss statutory financial statements that likely will limit our ability to make distributions on our shares free of swiss withholding tax in future years. there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax purposes) or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. in addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from swiss withholding tax is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders and any restriction on our ability to do so could make our stock less attractive to investors. 24 table of contents currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. under swiss corporate law, we are required to state our year end unconsolidated swiss statutory financial statements in swiss francs. although distributions that are effected through a return of contributed surplus or registered share capital are expected to be paid in u.s. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions are required to be stated in swiss francs. if the u.s. dollar were to increase in value relative to the swiss franc, the u.s. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without swiss withholding tax will decrease. we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares. the swiss code of obligations regulates a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. we and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for swiss tax purposes) are available. the aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. we may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. additionally, interpretations of recently enacted swiss tax legislation and various proposals in switzerland for tax law and corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to repurchase our shares. we are in discussions with swiss tax authorities regarding certain administrative aspects of recently enacted swiss tax legislation related to the classification of swiss contributed surplus in our swiss statutory financial statements for tax and statutory reporting purposes. should we not be successful in our discussions, we may need to formally enter into an appeal process in order to gain a favorable ruling. should we not gain favorable resolution, we may be required to make certain statutory reclassifications to swiss contributed surplus in our swiss statutory financial statements that may negatively impact our ability to repurchase our shares. our ability to repurchase our shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by swiss law for swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). this provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. the board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements as set forth in our articles of association. additionally, various proposals in switzerland for corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may require shareholder registration in order to exercise voting rights for shareholders who hold their shares in street name through brokerages and banks. such a registration requirement could make our stock less attractive to investors. 25 table of contents certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these provisions, among others: shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors, both of which provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in the case of issuances from authorized capital, until march 9, 2013 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. we note that swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. in addition, the new york stock exchange, on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize foreign currency forward and swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 30, 2011 market rates would have decreased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $19 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would have increased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $24 million. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar from the september 24, 2010 market rates would have decreased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $12 million, while a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar would have increased the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $15 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, from time to time, to fund our operations and capital needs. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure and to minimize overall interest cost, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps ("swaptions") to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize interest rate swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges, to manage interest rate and earnings exposure on cash and cash equivalents and certain non-qualified deferred compensation liabilities. during fiscal 2011, we entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $150 million principal amount of the 4.875% senior notes that mature in 2021 to manage interest rate exposure. the maturity dates of the interest rate swaps coincide with the maturity date of the notes. under these contracts, we receive fixed amounts of interest applicable to the underlying notes and pay a floating amount based upon the three month u.s. dollar london interbank offered rate. during fiscal 2010, we purchased swaptions and entered into forward starting interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure prior to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt when our 6.00% senior notes mature in 2012. the swaptions and forward starting interest rate swaps are based on a total notional amount of $400 million. also during fiscal 2010, we entered into an interest rate swap designated as a fair value hedge on $50 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes. based on our floating rate debt balance of $202 million at september 30, 2011, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $1 million. based on our floating 69 table of contents rate debt balance of $150 million at september 24, 2010, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $1 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts, all of which are designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next twelve to eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 30, 2011, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold and silver, were in a loss position of $1 million and had a notional value of $211 million. at september 24, 2010, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold and silver, were in a gain position of $12 million and had a notional value of $108 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold and a troy ounce of silver from the september 30, 2011 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $21 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold and a troy ounce of silver from the september 24, 2010 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $12 million. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on financial instruments.risk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, natural disasters, and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. risks relating to our business conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or globally, including the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels including credit rating downgrades and defaults on sovereign debt and significant bank failures or defaults in the eurozone, any of which could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, and ability to obtain financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. if regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. a deterioration in economic conditions could trigger the recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill or other long-lived assets. impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. we are dependent on the automotive industry. approximately 39% of our net sales for fiscal 2012 were to customers in the automotive industry. the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. additionally, the automotive industry has historically experienced significant downturns during periods of deteriorating global or regional economic or credit conditions. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by significant declines in global or regional economic and credit conditions and changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. we are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. approximately 13% of our net sales for fiscal 2012 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. the telecommunications industry has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. demand for these products is further subject to rapid technological change, and has been and continues to be affected by declines in consumer and business spending. additionally, these markets are dominated by several large 12 table of contents manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our inability to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. approximately 5% of our net sales for fiscal 2012 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends on underlying business and consumer demand for computer and consumer electronics products, as well as the market share of our customers. demand has been and continues to be affected by reduced spending. we cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components, and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality, and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology, our ability to participate in emerging markets, and customers' expectations relating to socially responsible operations. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue. substantially all of the markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products, to modify existing products, and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. there are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. we have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion of approximately 1% each year. in order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, silver, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, zinc, and other precious metals. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the price of 13 table of contents many of these raw materials, including gold and copper, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. gold has recently traded at an all-time high. in recent years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of certain commodities prices. the success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecasts of planned consumption of the hedged commodity materials. we could experience unanticipated hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo ("drc"). as a result, the sec established new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the drc and adjoining countries in their products. these requirements are effective for the calendar year beginning january 1, 2013. the new requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. as a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. approximately 54% of our net sales for fiscal 2012 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect non-u.s. dollar revenue to represent a significant and likely increased portion of our future net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro or asian currencies, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace, defense, and marine industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, enabling them to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. the life cycles of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, 14 table of contents from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover, and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. the deutsch group sas acquisition and future acquisitions may not be successful. we regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings. in april 2012, we acquired deutsch group sas ("deutsch"). risks associated with the completed acquisition of deutsch include the risk that deutsch's operations will not be integrated successfully into ours and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings, and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. we cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with other acquisition candidates in the future. we also cannot assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to make a substantial acquisition with cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot assure you that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to make an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. we could suffer significant business interruptions. our operations and those of our suppliers and customers, and the supply chains that supports their operations, may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease, or failures of management information or other systems due to internal or external causes. if a business interruption occurs and we are unsuccessful in our continuing efforts to minimize the impact of these events, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. we depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack 15 table of contents sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity securities, which has and could further reduce the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. in addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. recent downgrades of credit ratings of sovereign debt, including the u.s., have similarly affected the availability and cost of capital. as a result, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we continue to evaluate the strategic fit of specific businesses and products which may result in additional divestitures. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. 16 table of contents if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the united states and the european union. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we also may be subject to third-party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. further, any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability. our workforce, manufacturing, research, administrative, and sales facilities, markets, customers, and suppliers are located throughout the world. as a result, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; variations in lengths of payment cycles; tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, and difficulties in the tax-efficient repatriation of cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; employment regulations and local labor conditions; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including sovereign debt levels, eurozone uncertainty, inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. we have sizeable operations in china, including 17 manufacturing sites. in addition, 15% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 were made to customers in china. the legal system in china is still developing and is subject to change. accordingly, our operations and orders for products in china could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of chinese law. in addition, standard &amp; poor's recent credit rating downgrade of long-term u.s. sovereign debt, any future downgrade by other rating agencies of long-term u.s. sovereign debt, or downgrades or defaults of sovereign debt of other nations may negatively affect global financial markets and economic conditions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. anti-bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), the u.k. anti-bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making 17 table of contents improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. we are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate. these laws and regulations govern, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; greenhouse gas emissions; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. in addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and similar environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly-owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of 18 table of contents their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include the eu restriction of hazardous substances, end of life vehicle, and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the eu reach (chemical registration) directive, the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products, and various other laws. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. these laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit facility contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt (as defined in the credit facility) to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (as defined in the credit facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding notes indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although none of these covenants is presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the bank credit facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our credit facility or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. 19 table of contents risks relating to our separation from tyco international we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. in connection with our separation from tyco international in 2007, we, tyco international, and its former healthcare businesses ("covidien") entered into a tax sharing agreement, under which we share responsibility for certain of our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. we, tyco international, and covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco international's, and covidien's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, tyco international and covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. all of the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from tyco international, became our tax liabilities. although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with tyco international and covidien pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. if tyco international and covidien default on their obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco international's, and covidien's tax liabilities. our, tyco international's, and covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that we have assessed under the uncertain tax position provisions of accounting standards codification ("asc") 740, income taxes , have been reflected as liabilities on the consolidated financial statements. the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. we recognize liabilities for tax and related interest for issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. these tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. these estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our best interests. moreover, the other parties to the tax sharing agreement will be able to remove tyco international as 20 table of contents the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. all other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. if the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco international received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and covidien common shares to the tyco international shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained opinions from outside legal counsel confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco international, and covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, tyco international would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and covidien common shares distributed to tyco international shareholders on the distribution date over tyco international's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, tyco international, or covidien, then we, tyco international, or covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, tyco international, or covidien as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. 21 table of contents risks relating to our swiss jurisdiction of incorporation legislative and other proposals in switzerland, the united states, and other jurisdictions could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. various u.s. and non-u.s. legislative proposals and other initiatives have been directed at companies incorporated in lower-tax jurisdictions. we believe that recently there has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and other initiatives as various jurisdictions look for solutions to fiscal deficits. if adopted, these proposed changes could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals or initiatives, and we cannot assure you that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. legislation in the united states could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to u.s. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate locations abroad. we believe that we are less likely to be subject to such proposals since becoming a swiss corporation in june 2009. however, we cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. therefore, we cannot assure you that any such legislative action will not apply to us. in addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. as a swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management involving the issuance of shares. as a swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares or reclassify reserves on our standalone unconsolidated swiss balance sheet without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. our articles of association allow us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years, which authorization period ends on march 9, 2013, and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. moreover, under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay 22 table of contents the timing to execute such actions. such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. while we do not believe that swiss law requirements relating to the issuance of shares will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders and such limitations on our capital management flexibility would make our stock less attractive to investors. swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of switzerland. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. and switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of u.s. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in swiss courts as they are contrary to that nation's public policy. swiss corporate law, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. these differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. risks relating to our shares the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by global economic conditions and investors' concerns about potential risks to future economic growth; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies and companies that serve end markets important to our business. we might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. in order to make distributions on our shares to shareholders free of swiss withholding tax, we anticipate making distributions to shareholders through a reduction of contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax and statutory purposes) or registered share capital. various tax law and 23 table of contents corporate law proposals in switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from swiss withholding tax. there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax and statutory purposes) or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. in addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from swiss withholding tax is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to do so could make our stock less attractive to investors. currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. under swiss corporate law, we are required to state our year end unconsolidated swiss statutory financial statements in swiss francs. although distributions that are effected through a return of contributed surplus or registered share capital are expected to be paid in u.s. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions are required to be stated in swiss francs. if the u.s. dollar were to increase in value relative to the swiss franc, the u.s. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without swiss withholding tax will decrease. we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares. the swiss code of obligations regulates a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. we and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. the aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. we may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. additionally, various tax law and corporate law proposals in switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to repurchase our shares. our ability to repurchase our shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by swiss law for swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). this provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. the board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements as set forth in our articles of association. additionally, various proposals in switzerland for corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may require shareholder registration in order to exercise voting rights for shareholders who hold their shares in street name through brokerages and banks. such a registration requirement could make our stock less attractive to investors. 24 table of contents certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these provisions, among others: shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors. these provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price, or otherwise be considered favorable by our shareholders. our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in the case of issuances from authorized capital, until march 9, 2013 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. we note that swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. in addition, the new york stock exchange, on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize foreign currency forward and swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the 64 table of contents objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany transactions, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 28, 2012 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our forward and swap contracts by $35 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 30, 2011 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our forward and swap contracts by $20 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, from time to time, to fund our operations and capital needs. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and swaptions to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swap contracts to manage earnings exposure on certain non-qualified deferred compensation liabilities. during fiscal 2011, we entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $150 million principal amount of the 4.875% senior notes due 2021. the maturity dates of the interest rate swaps coincide with the maturity date of the notes. under these contracts, we receive fixed amounts of interest applicable to the underlying notes and pay a floating amount based upon the three month u.s. dollar libor. during fiscal 2010, we entered into an interest rate swap designated as a fair value hedge on $50 million principal amount of the 6.00% senior notes due 2012. the maturity date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the maturity date of the underlying debt. under this contract, we receive fixed rates of interest applicable to the underlying debt and pay floating rates of interest based on the one month u.s. dollar libor. based on our floating rate debt balances of approximately $200 million at september 28, 2012 and september 30, 2011, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $1 million. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize cash flow hedge-designated commodity swap contracts. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 28, 2012, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net gain position of $17 million and had a notional value of $246 million. at september 30, 2011, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold and silver, were in a net loss position of $1 million and had a notional value of $211 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the september 28, 2012 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $26 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold and a troy ounce of silver from the september 30, 2011 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $21 million. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. 65 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize foreign currency forward and swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 27, 2013 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our forward and swap 63 table of contents contracts by $27 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 28, 2012 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our forward and swap contracts by $35 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, as needed, to fund our operations and capital requirements. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps ("swaptions") to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swaps to manage earnings exposure on certain non-qualified deferred compensation liabilities. during fiscal 2011, we entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $150 million principal amount of the 4.875% senior notes due 2021. the maturity dates of the interest rate swaps coincide with the maturity date of the notes. under these contracts, we receive fixed amounts of interest applicable to the underlying notes and pay a floating amount based upon the three-month u.s. dollar libor. based on our floating rate debt balances of approximately $150 million at september 27, 2013 and $200 million at september 28, 2012, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $1 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 27, 2013, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $27 million and had a notional value of $278 million. at september 28, 2012, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold and silver, were in a net gain position of $17 million and had a notional value of $246 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the september 27, 2013 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $25 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold and a troy ounce of silver from the september 28, 2012 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $26 million. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on financial instruments. 64 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize foreign currency forward and swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 26, 2014 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our forward and swap contracts by $16 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 27, 2013 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our forward and swap contracts by $27 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would be generally offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. 61 table of contents interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, as needed, to fund our operations and capital requirements. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swaps to manage earnings exposure on certain nonqualified deferred compensation liabilities. during fiscal 2014, we entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on $300 million principal amount of our 3.50% senior notes due 2022. the maturity dates of the interest rate swaps coincide with the maturity date of the notes. under these contracts, we receive fixed amounts of interest applicable to the underlying notes and pay floating amounts based upon the three-month libor. based on our floating rate debt balances of approximately $950 million at september 26, 2014 and $150 million at september 27, 2013, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $5 million and $1 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 26, 2014, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $21 million and had a notional value of $307 million. at september 27, 2013, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $27 million and had a notional value of $278 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the september 26, 2014 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $29 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the september 27, 2013 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $25 million. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on financial instruments.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, and foreign currency swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, or foreign currency swap contracts from the september 25, 2015 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $109 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our foreign currency forward or swap contracts from the september 26, 2014 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $16 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would generally be offset by the gains or losses on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, as needed, to fund our operations and capital requirements. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swaps to manage earnings exposure on certain nonqualified deferred compensation liabilities. based on our floating rate debt balances of approximately $800 million at september 25, 2015 and $950 million at september 26, 2014, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $4 million and $5 million in fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. 55 table of contents commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at september 25, 2015, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $33 million and had a notional value of $260 million. at september 26, 2014, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $21 million and had a notional value of $307 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the september 25, 2015 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $23 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the september 26, 2014 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $29 million. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on financial instruments.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, and foreign currency swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, or foreign currency swap contracts from the fiscal year end 2016 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $112 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, or foreign currency swap contracts from the fiscal year end 2015 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $109 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would generally be offset by the losses or gains on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, as needed, to fund our operations and capital requirements. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the 49 table of contents anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swaps to manage earnings exposure on certain nonqualified deferred compensation liabilities. based on our floating rate debt balances of approximately $300 million at fiscal year end 2016 and $800 million at fiscal year end 2015, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase of annual interest expense of approximately $2 million and $4 million in fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts in order to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at fiscal year end 2016, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net gain position of $11 million and had a notional value of $232 million. at fiscal year end 2015, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $33 million and had a notional value of $260 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the fiscal year end 2016 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $24 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the fiscal year end 2015 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $23 million. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding financial instruments.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, and foreign currency swap contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, or foreign currency swap contracts from the fiscal year end 2017 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $122 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, or foreign currency swap contracts from the fiscal year end 2016 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $112 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would generally be offset by the losses or gains on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, as needed, to fund our operations and capital requirements. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swaps to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we use forward starting interest rate swaps and options to enter into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swaps to manage earnings exposure on certain nonqualified deferred compensation liabilities. based on our floating rate debt balances at fiscal year end 2017 and 2016, an increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates by 0.5%, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an immaterial increase in interest expense in both fiscal 2017 and 2016. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at fiscal year end 2017, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net gain position of $20 million and had a notional value of $314 million. at fiscal year end 2016, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net gain position of $11 million and had a notional value of $232 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the fiscal year end 2017 prices would have changed the unrealized 47 table of contents value of our forward contracts by $33 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the fiscal year end 2016 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $24 million. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding financial instruments.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency movements on outstanding debt and non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities and commodity price movements. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions to manage a portion of these risks. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. substantially all counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to major financial institutions with at least an a/a2 credit rating. there is no significant concentration of exposures with any one counterparty. foreign currency exposures as part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize cross-currency swap contracts and foreign currency forward contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. the objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts or foreign currency forward contracts from the fiscal year end 2018 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $101 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying currency in our cross-currency swap contracts or foreign currency forward contracts from the fiscal year end 2017 market rates would have changed the unrealized value of our contracts by $122 million. such gains or losses on these contracts would generally be offset by the losses or gains on the revaluation or settlement of the underlying transactions. interest rate and investment exposures we issue debt, as needed, to fund our operations and capital requirements. such borrowings can result in interest rate exposure. to manage the interest rate exposure, we use interest rate swap contracts to convert a portion of fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. we may use forward starting interest rate swap contracts to manage interest rate exposure in periods prior to the anticipated issuance of fixed-rate debt. we also utilize investment swap contracts to manage earnings exposure on certain nonqualified deferred compensation liabilities. based on our floating rate debt balances at fiscal year end 2018 and 2017, a 50 basis point increase in the levels of the u.s. dollar interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an immaterial increase in interest expense in both fiscal 2018 and 2017. commodity exposures our worldwide operations and product lines may expose us to risks from fluctuations in commodity prices. to limit the effects of fluctuations in the future market price paid and related volatility in cash flows, we utilize commodity swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges. we continually evaluate the commodity market with respect to our forecasted usage requirements over the next eighteen months and periodically enter into commodity swap contracts to hedge a portion of usage requirements over that period. at fiscal year end 2018, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net loss position of $34 million and had a notional value of $401 million. at fiscal year end 2017, our commodity hedges, which related to expected purchases of gold, silver, and copper, were in a net gain position of $20 million and had a notional value of $314 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the fiscal year end 2018 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $37 million. a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the price of a 45 table of contents troy ounce of gold, a troy ounce of silver, and a pound of copper, from the fiscal year end 2017 prices would have changed the unrealized value of our forward contracts by $33 million. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding financial instruments.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38risk factors 7 risk factors for discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with the covid-19 pandemic. segments we operate through three reportable segments: transportation solutions, industrial solutions, and communications solutions. although the covid-19 pandemic has negatively affected our markets, we expect a gradual recovery with our three segments once again serving a combined market of approximately $190 billion. our net sales by segment as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows: fiscal 2020 2019 2018 transportation solutions 56 % 58 % 59 % industrial solutions 31 30 28 communications solutions 13 12 13 total 100 % 100 % 100 % below is a description of our reportable segments and the primary products, markets, and competitors of each segment. 1 table of contents transportation solutions the transportation solutions segment is a leader in connectivity and sensor technologies. the primary products sold by the transportation solutions segment include terminals and connector systems and components, sensors, relays, antennas, application tooling, and wire and heat shrink tubing. the transportation solutions segment's products, which must withstand harsh conditions, are used in the following end markets: automotive (72% of segment's net sales) we are one of the leading providers of advanced automobile connectivity solutions. the automotive industry uses our products in automotive technologies for body and chassis systems, convenience applications, driver information, infotainment solutions, miniaturization solutions, motor and powertrain applications, and safety and security systems. hybrid and electronic mobility solutions include in-vehicle technologies, battery technologies, and charging solutions. commercial transportation (15% of segment's net sales) we deliver reliable connectivity products designed to withstand harsh environmental conditions for on- and off-highway vehicles and recreational transportation, including heavy trucks, construction, agriculture, buses, and other vehicles. sensors (13% of segment's net sales) we offer a portfolio of intelligent, efficient, and high-performing sensor solutions that are used by customers across multiple industries, including automotive, industrial equipment, commercial transportation, medical solutions, aerospace and defense, and consumer applications. the transportation solutions segment's major competitors include yazaki, aptiv, sumitomo, sensata, honeywell, molex, and amphenol. industrial solutions the industrial solutions segment is a leading supplier of products that connect and distribute power, data, and signals. the primary products sold by the industrial solutions segment include terminals and connector systems and components, heat shrink tubing, interventional medical components, relays, and wire and cable. the industrial solutions segment's products are used in the following end markets: aerospace, defense, oil, and gas (32% of segment's net sales) we design, develop, and manufacture a comprehensive portfolio of critical electronic components and systems for the harsh operating conditions of the commercial aerospace, defense, and marine industries. our products and systems are designed and manufactured to operate effectively in harsh conditions ranging from the depths of the ocean to the far reaches of space. industrial equipment (30% of segment's net sales) our products are used in factory automation and process control systems such as industrial controls, robotics, human machine interface, industrial communication, and power distribution. our intelligent building products are used to connect lighting and offer solutions in hvac, elevators/escalators, and security. our rail products are used in high-speed trains, metros, light rail vehicles, locomotives, and signaling switching equipment. our products are also used by the solar industry. medical (19% of segment's net sales) our products are used in imaging, diagnostic, surgical, and minimally invasive interventional applications. we specialize in the design and manufacture of advanced surgical, imaging, and interventional device solutions. key markets served include cardiovascular, peripheral vascular, structural heart, endoscopy, electrophysiology, and neurovascular therapies. energy (19% of segment's net sales) our products are used by oems and utility companies in the electrical power industry and include a wide range of solutions for the electrical power generation, transmission, distribution, and industrial markets. the industrial solutions segment competes primarily against amphenol, hubbell, carlisle companies, abb, integer holdings, esterline, molex, and omron. 2 table of contents communications solutions the communications solutions segment is a leading supplier of electronic components for the data and devices and the appliances markets. the primary products sold by the communications solutions segment include terminals and connector systems and components, relays, heat shrink tubing, and antennas. the communications solutions segment's products are used in the following end markets: data and devices (60% of segment's net sales) we deliver products and solutions that are used in a variety of equipment architectures within the networking equipment, data center equipment, and wireless infrastructure industries. additionally, we deliver a range of connectivity solutions for the internet of things, smartphones, tablet computers, notebooks, and virtual reality applications to help our customers meet their current challenges and future innovations. appliances (40% of segment's net sales) we provide solutions to meet the daily demands of home appliances. our products are used in many household appliances, including washers, dryers, refrigerators, air conditioners, dishwashers, cooking appliances, water heaters, air purifiers, floor care devices, and microwaves. our expansive range of standard products is supplemented by an array of custom-designed solutions. the communications solutions segment's major competitors include amphenol, molex, jst, and korea electric terminal (ket). customers as an industry leader, we have established close working relationships with many of our customers. these relationships allow us to better anticipate and respond to customer needs when designing new products and new technical solutions. by working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we can identify and act on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology across our products. our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to further develop our product families and ensure that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and engineering support. we believe that as electronic component technologies continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when addressing the needs of our global customers. we manufacture and sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries, and our relationships with them typically date back many years. we believe that our diversified customer base provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets and reduce our exposure to individual end markets, thereby reducing the variability of our financial performance. additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our competitors. no single customer accounted for a significant amount of our net sales in fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018. sales and distribution we maintain a strong local presence in each of the geographic regions in which we operate. our net sales by geographic region (1) as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows: fiscal 2020 2019 2018 asia pacific 35 % 33 % 34 % europe/middle east/africa ( emea ) 35 36 38 americas 30 31 28 total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) net sales to external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale. 3 table of contents we sell our products into approximately 140 countries primarily through direct selling efforts to manufacturers. in fiscal 2020, our direct sales represented approximately 80% of total net sales. we also sell our products indirectly via third-party distributors. we maintain distribution centers around the world. products are generally delivered to the distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. in some instances, however, products are delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. our global coverage positions us near our customers' locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering their production costs. we contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products globally via road, rail, sea, and air. we believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile. seasonality and backlog typically, we experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. overall, the third and fourth fiscal quarters are usually the strongest quarters of our fiscal year, whereas the first fiscal quarter is negatively affected by holidays and the second fiscal quarter may be affected by adverse winter weather conditions in some of our markets. certain of our end markets experience some seasonality. our sales in the automotive market are dependent upon global automotive production, and seasonal declines in european production may negatively impact net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter. also, our sales in the energy market typically increase in the third and fourth fiscal quarters as customer activity increases. customer orders and demand may fluctuate as a result of economic and market conditions. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations as a result of the impacts of the covid-19 pandemic. backlog by reportable segment was as follows: fiscal year end 2020 2019 (in millions) transportation solutions $ 1,819 $ 1,639 industrial solutions 1,260 1,315 communications solutions 439 361 total $ 3,518 $ 3,315 we expect that the majority of our backlog at fiscal year end 2020 will be filled during fiscal 2021. backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales as unfilled orders may be cancelled prior to shipment of goods. competition the industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large multinational corporations to local manufacturers. competition is generally based on breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, delivery, and service. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, downward pressure on prices. raw materials we use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. the principal raw materials that we use include plastic resins for molding; precious metals such as gold and silver for plating; and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, and steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and other parts that are used for cable and component bodies and inserts. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. the prices of these materials are driven by global supply and demand. intellectual property patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. we also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. we review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to 4 table of contents develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others. we own a large portfolio of patents that relate principally to electrical, optical, and electronic products. we also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks. while we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by any single patent or group of related patents. human capital management we have employees located throughout the world. as of fiscal year end 2020, we employed approximately 82,000 people worldwide, including contract employees. approximately 22,000 were in the asia pacific region, 31,000 were in the emea region, and 29,000 were in the americas region. of our total employees, approximately 52,000 were employed in manufacturing. our strong employee base, along with their commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of our company's success. our employees are responsible for upholding our purpose to create a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future; our values integrity, accountability, teamwork, and innovation; and our strategy, execution, and talent ( set ) leadership expectations. we track and report internally on key talent metrics including workforce demographics, critical role pipeline data, diversity data, and engagement and inclusion indices. we embrace diversity and inclusion. a truly innovative workforce needs to be diverse and leverage the skills and perspectives of a wealth of backgrounds and experiences. to attract a global workforce, we strive to embed a culture where employees can bring their whole selves to work. our employee resource groups ( ergs ) are company-sponsored groups of employees that support and promote certain mutual objectives of both the employees and the company, including inclusion and diversity and the professional development of employees. the ergs provide a space where employees can foster connections and develop in a supportive environment. as of fiscal year end 2020, we had six ergs align (lgbtq), women in networking, te young professionals, african heritage, te veterans, and asian heritage. we are focused on recruitment of diverse candidates and on internal talent development of our diverse leaders so that they can advance their careers and move into leadership positions within the company. also, during fiscal 2020, we conducted a fully digital, enterprise-wide engagement survey, our every connection counts survey, which was available in 13 languages and focused on measuring engagement and inclusion. we continue to emphasize employee development and training. to empower employees to unleash their potential, we provide a range of development programs and opportunities, skills, and resources they need to be successful. our learn@te platform supplements our talent development strategies. it is an online portal that enables employees to access instructor-led classroom or virtual courses and self-directed web-based courses. in fiscal 2019, we launched set leadership expectations to all employees which focus on how we drive strategy, effectively execute, and build talent. we believe these behavioral expectations are integrated into the way we assess and select talent, manage performance, and develop our people. we are committed to identifying and developing the talents of our next generation leaders. we have a robust talent and succession planning process and have established specialized programs to support the development of our talent pipeline for critical roles in general management, engineering, and operations. on an annual basis, we conduct an organization and leadership review process with our chief executive officer and all segment, business unit, and function leaders focusing on our high performing and high potential talent, diverse talent, and the succession for our most critical roles. we believe our management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. our chief executive officer and segment leaders average approximately 25 years of industry experience. they are supported by an experienced and talented management team who is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the industry. for discussion of the risks relating to the attraction and retention of management and executive management employees, see part 1. item 1a. risk factors. 5 table of contents government regulation and supervision the import and export of products are subject to regulation by the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. a small portion of our products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. we have a trade compliance organization and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction. environmental our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous materials in products, and chemical usage. we are committed to complying with these laws and to the protection of our employees and the environment. we maintain a global environmental, health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards; staff dedicated to environmental, health, and safety issues; periodic compliance auditing; training; and other measures. we also have a program for compliance with the european union ( eu ) restriction of hazardous substances and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives, the china restriction of hazardous substances law, the eu registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals ( reach ) regulation, and similar laws. compliance with these laws has increased our costs of doing business in a variety of ways and may continue to do so in the future. for example, laws regarding product content and chemical registration require extensive and costly data collection, management, and reporting, and laws regulating greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs for energy and certain materials and products. we also have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing sites to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. based upon our experience, available information, and applicable laws, as of fiscal year end 2020, we concluded that we would incur investigation and remediation costs at these sites in the reasonably possible range of $16 million to $45 million, and we accrued $20 million as the probable loss, which was the best estimate within this range. we do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2021 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions. available information all periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the united states securities and exchange commission ( sec ), including annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 ( exchange act ) are available free of charge through our internet website at www.te.com . such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the sec. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 table of contents item 1a. risk factors investors should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. these risks are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to general risks that affect many other companies. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. many of the risks listed below are, and will be, exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic and any worsening of the economic environment. risks relating to the macroeconomic environment and our global presence conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems, and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or globally, including the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels including credit rating downgrades and defaults on sovereign debt and significant bank failures or defaults. any of these economic factors could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, and ability to obtain financing. as a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. if regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. also, deterioration in economic conditions, expectations for future revenue, projected future cash flows, or other factors have triggered and could trigger additional recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill or other long-lived assets. impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. our consolidated financial statements are prepared in united states ( u.s. ) dollars; however, a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the u.s. changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are exposed to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. approximately 60% of our net sales for fiscal 2020 were invoiced in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and we expect non-u.s. dollar revenue to continue to represent a significant portion of our future net sales. we have elected not to hedge this foreign currency exposure. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro or asian currencies, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. we manage certain cash, intercompany, and other balance sheet currency exposures in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. in addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. we have suffered and could continue to suffer significant business interruptions, including impacts resulting from the covid-19 pandemic. our operations and those of our suppliers and customers, and the supply chains that support their operations, may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, tornados, or floods; other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, or disease or other adverse health developments, including impacts resulting from the covid-19 pandemic; or failures of management information or other systems due to internal or external causes. in addition, such interruptions could result in a widespread crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our end customers' products. if a business interruption occurs and we are unsuccessful in our continuing efforts to minimize the impact of these events, our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. the covid-19 pandemic is currently impacting countries, communities, workforces, supply chains, and markets around the world, and as a result, we have experienced disruptions and restrictions on our employees' ability to travel, as well as temporary closures of our facilities and the facilities of our customers, suppliers, and other vendors in our supply chain. as a 7 table of contents result of the covid-19 pandemic, some of our employees have transitioned to working from home on a full-time or part-time basis, which may increase our vulnerability to cyber and other information technology risks. the covid-19 pandemic has had, and we expect that it will continue to have, a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations in the near term and may have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations in future periods. the extent to which the covid-19 pandemic will further impact our business and our financial results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. such developments may include the further spread of the virus to additional persons and geographic regions; the severity of the virus; the duration of the pandemic; the impact on our suppliers' and customers' supply chains and financial positions, including their ability to pay us; the actions that may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak in jurisdictions in which we operate; and the possible impact on the global economy and local economies in which we operate. further, to the extent the covid-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations, or financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this risk factors section. we could be adversely affected by a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets. concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity securities, which has reduced and could further reduce the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. in addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. a decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. the global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. downgrades of sovereign debt credit ratings have similarly affected the availability and cost of capital. as a result, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. the extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. we are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability. our workforce; manufacturing, research, administrative, and sales facilities; markets; customers; and suppliers are located throughout the world. as a result, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: changes in global trade policies, including sanctions, tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; variations in lengths of payment cycles and challenges in collecting accounts receivable; tax law and regulatory changes in switzerland, the u.s., and the eu among other jurisdictions, including tax law and regulatory changes that may be effected as a result of tax policy recommendations from quasi-governmental organizations such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, changes to the terms of income tax treaties, and difficulties in the tax-efficient repatriation of cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; employment regulations and local labor conditions, including increases in employment costs, particularly in low-cost regions in which we currently operate; difficulties protecting intellectual property; instability in economic or political conditions, including sovereign debt levels, eurozone uncertainty, inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; 8 table of contents the impact of the united kingdom ' withdrawal from the eu on january 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as brexit ), subject to a transition period that is set to end on december 31, 2020, could cause disruptions to, and create uncertainty surrounding, our business, including affecting our relationships with existing and potential customers and suppliers. the effects of brexit, including long-lasting effects of brexit on eu market access, will depend on more permanent agreements between the united kingdom and the eu to be negotiated during the transition period; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. we have sizeable operations in china, including 17 principal manufacturing sites. in addition, approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2020 were made to customers in china. economic conditions in china have been, and may continue to be, volatile and uncertain. in addition, the legal and regulatory system in china is still developing and subject to change. accordingly, our operations and transactions with customers in china could be adversely affected by changes to market conditions, changes to the regulatory environment, or interpretation of chinese law. in addition, any downgrade by rating agencies of long-term u.s. sovereign debt or downgrades or defaults of sovereign debt of other nations may negatively affect global financial markets and economic conditions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and liquidity. changes in u.s. federal tax laws could result in adverse consequences to u.s. persons treated as owning 10% or more of our shares. although we are a swiss corporation, recent u.s. tax law changes have expanded application of certain ownership attribution rules and cause certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries to be treated as controlled foreign corporations ( cfcs ) for u.s. federal income tax purposes. a u.s. person that is treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as owning, directly, indirectly, or constructively, 10% or more of our shares may be required to annually report and include in its u.s. taxable income its pro rata share of certain types of income earned by our subsidiaries that are treated as cfcs, whether or not we make any distributions to such u.s. shareholder. a u.s. person that owns 10% or more of our shares should consult a tax adviser regarding the potential implications to it of these changes in u.s. federal income tax law. the risk of u.s. federal income tax reporting and compliance obligations with respect to our subsidiaries that now are treated as cfcs may deter our current shareholders from increasing their investment in us, and others from investing in us, which could impact the demand for, and value of, our shares. risks relating to the industry in which we operate we are dependent on the automotive and other industries. we are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. approximately 40% of our net sales for fiscal 2020 were to customers in the automotive industry. the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. additionally, the automotive industry has historically experienced significant downturns during periods of deteriorating global or regional economic or credit conditions. as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by significant declines in global or regional economic or credit conditions and changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. during fiscal 2020, approximately 10% of our net sales were to customers in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market, 9% of our net sales were to customers in the industrial equipment end market, and 9% of our net sales were to customers in the commercial transportation market. the aerospace and defense industry has undergone significant fluctuations in demand as a result of economic and political conditions, including the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. demand in the oil and gas market is impacted by oil price volatility. the industrial equipment industry is dependent upon economic conditions, including customer investment in factory automation, intelligent buildings, and process control systems, as well as market conditions in the rail transportation, solar and lighting, and other major industrial markets we 9 table of contents serve. demand in the commercial transportation industry is impacted by the economic environment and market conditions in the heavy truck, construction, agriculture, and recreational vehicle markets. we encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. we operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components and expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. our overall competitive position depends on various factors including the price, quality, and performance of our products; the level of customer service; the development of new technology; our ability to participate in emerging markets; and customers' expectations relating to socially responsible operations. the competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. the electronic components industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. a number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may have the benefit of lower production costs for certain products. we cannot provide assurance that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we are dependent on market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue. substantially all markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products; to modify existing products; and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. there are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands. like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. we have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. in recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2% each year. to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. we cannot provide assurance that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, data and devices, and aerospace and defense industries. consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. in addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, enabling them to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. these trends may adversely affect the margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short. the life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. as a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. if we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover, and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 10 table of contents risks relating to our operations our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. we are a large buyer of resins, chemicals, additives, and metals, including copper, gold, silver, aluminum, brass, steel, and zinc. many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, the prices of many of these raw materials continue to fluctuate. if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price increases for these raw materials, it could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials. to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in addition, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of certain commodities prices. the success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecasts of planned consumption of the hedged commodity materials. we could experience unanticipated hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate. in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold ( conflict minerals or 3tg ) mined from the democratic republic of the congo ( drc ) and adjoining countries (together with the drc, the covered countries ) in their products. these requirements, as well as new and additional regulations like the eu's conflict minerals regulation, could affect the sourcing, pricing, and availability of 3tg used in the manufacture of certain of our products, and may result in only a limited pool of suppliers who can demonstrate that they do not source any 3tg from the covered countries. accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain non-conflict 3tg in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. we may use components and products manufactured by third parties. we may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. our future success is significantly dependent on our ability to attract and retain management and executive management employees. our success depends to a significant extent upon our continued ability to retain our management and executive management employees and hire new management and executive management employees to replace, succeed, or add to members of our management team. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. competition for management talent is intense, and any difficulties we may have to retain or hire members of management to achieve our objectives may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure or violations of data privacy laws could interfere with our operations, compromise confidential information, and expose us to liability which could materially adversely impact our business and reputation. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations; compromise information belonging to us, our employees, customers, and suppliers; and expose us to liability which could adversely impact our business and reputation. in the normal course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information and customer and employee data, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls. specifically, we are subject to the laws of various states and countries where we operate or do business related to solicitation, collection, processing, transferring, storing, or use of consumer, customer, vendor, or 11 table of contents employee information or related data, including the eu's general data protection regulation, which went into effect in may 2018, and the california consumer privacy act of 2018, which went into effect in january 2020. in addition, several other countries in which we operate or do business, such as china, have enacted or are considering enacting laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions. if countries in which we operate or do business adopt data localization or data residency laws, we could be required to implement new or expand existing data storage protocols, build new storage facilities, and/or devote additional resources to comply with the requirements of such laws, any of which could have significant cost implications. despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third-party training, monitoring of networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems) which are continuously reviewed and upgraded to mitigate persistent and continuously evolving cybersecurity threats, our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, pandemics (including covid-19), or other catastrophic events. in recent years, we have been the target of attempted cyber intrusions, and must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect the integrity and functionality of our information technology infrastructure and access to and the security of our employees', customers', and suppliers' data. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure or violations of data privacy laws could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation which could materially adversely affect our business. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats to our information technology networks and infrastructure, to date none of these threats have had a material impact on our business or operations. in addition, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, some of our employees have transitioned to working from home on a full-time or part-time basis, which may increase our vulnerability to cyber and other information technology risks. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility ( credit facility ) contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the credit facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. our outstanding notes' indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. although none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the credit facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. a breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our credit facility or indentures. upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our credit facility. if the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: our quarterly or annual earnings; quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide or changes thereto; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 12 table of contents volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by global and regional economic conditions and investors ' concerns about potential risks to future economic growth; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; tax legislative and regulatory actions and proposals in switzerland, the u.s., the eu, and other jurisdictions; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies and companies that serve end markets important to our business. risks relating to strategic transactions future acquisitions may not be successful. we regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings, and we have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years. we anticipate that we will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as part of our growth strategy. we cannot provide assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with acquisition candidates in the future. we also cannot provide assurance that completed acquisitions will be successful. if an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. if we were to make a substantial acquisition with cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. this acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. we cannot provide assurance that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. if we were to complete an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we continue to evaluate the strategic fit of specific businesses and products which may result in additional divestitures. any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. risks relating to intellectual property, litigation, and regulations our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. the electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 13 table of contents we are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. in the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. if any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer. our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the u.s. and the eu. these laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. if any of our commercial agreements and practices with respect to the electronic components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. we may also be subject to third-party claims for damages. further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification to be lawful and enforceable. if we are unable to enforce our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. further, any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom's bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom's bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk. we are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. these laws and regulations govern, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; greenhouse gas emissions; product hazardous material content; and the health and safety of our employees. we may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. in 14 table of contents addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance requirements. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notifications from the u.s. environmental protection agency, other environmental agencies, and third parties that conditions at a number of currently and formerly-owned or operated sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. we also have independently investigated various sites and determined that further investigation and/or remediation is necessary. while we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. the eu, china, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. these laws include but are not limited to the eu restriction of hazardous substances, end of life vehicle, and waste electrical and electronic equipment directives; the eu reach regulation; and the china law on management methods for controlling pollution by electronic information products. these laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. these laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. these laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims. risks relating to our swiss jurisdiction of incorporation as a swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management involving the issuance of shares. as a swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares or reclassify reserves on our standalone unconsolidated swiss balance sheet without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. in addition, our articles of association allow us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years, which authorization period ends on march 11, 2022, approved by our shareholders at our march 11, 2020 annual general meeting of shareholders and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. moreover, under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. while we 15 table of contents do not believe that swiss law requirements relating to the issuance of shares will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot provide assurance that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders and such limitations on our capital management flexibility would make our stock less attractive to investors. we might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. we anticipate making distributions to shareholders through a reduction of contributed surplus (as determined for swiss tax and statutory purposes) in order to make the distributions on our shares to shareholders free of swiss withholding tax. various tax law and corporate law proposals in switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from swiss withholding tax. there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from contributed surplus or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. in addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from swiss withholding tax is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to do so could make our stock less attractive to investors. currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to swiss withholding tax. under swiss law, the registered share capital in our unconsolidated swiss statutory financial statements is required to be denominated in swiss francs. although distributions that are effected through a return of contributed surplus or registered share capital are expected to be paid in u.s. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions must take into account the swiss francs denomination of the registered share capital. if the u.s. dollar were to increase in value relative to the swiss franc, the u.s. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without swiss withholding tax will decrease. we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares. the swiss code of obligations regulates a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. we and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. the aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. we may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. additionally, various corporate law proposals in switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to repurchase our shares. our ability to repurchase our shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by swiss law for swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). this provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. the board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements in our articles of association. additionally, various proposals in switzerland for corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may require shareholder registration in order to exercise voting rights for shareholders who hold their shares in street name through brokerages and banks. such a registration requirement could make our stock less attractive to investors. 16 table of contents certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered anti-takeover provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. under these provisions, among others: shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors. these provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price, or otherwise be considered favorable by our shareholders. our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in case of issuances from authorized capital, until march 11, 2022 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. we note that swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. in addition, the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. global legislative and regulatory actions and proposals could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. various legislative and regulatory proposals have been directed at multinational companies with operations in lower-tax jurisdictions. there has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and on other initiatives, such as: the oecd ' initiative to develop agreed-upon best practices to prevent base erosion and profit shifting, which contemplate changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to the distribution of profits between affiliated entities in different tax jurisdictions, eu and other country efforts to adopt certain oecd proposals and modified oecd proposals (including the anti-tax avoidance directive, state aid cases, and various transparency proposals), and tax policy changes in the u.s., such as additional federal tax reform measures, new tax regulations, and revisions to the model income tax treaty. if these proposals are adopted in the main jurisdictions in which we do business, they could, among other things, cause double taxation, increase audit risk, and materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals or initiatives, and we cannot provide assurance that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. legislation in the u.s. could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to u.s. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. we expect the u.s. congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate locations abroad. we cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that any such 17 table of contents legislative action will not apply to us. in addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot provide assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. as we are organized under the laws of switzerland, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. and switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of u.s. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in swiss courts as they are contrary to switzerland's public policy. swiss law differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. these differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41