quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. our equipment financings, amounting to $0.3 million as of december 28, 2003, are all at fixed rates and therefore, have no exposure to changes in interest rates. in january 2002, we assumed a $26.0 million mortgage in connection with the purchase of a new facility and related land. the interest rate on this loan is fixed for a 10-year period and consequently there is no exposure to increasing market interest rates. we have not had any significant exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations, nor do we have any foreign currency hedging instruments in place.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. foreign currency exchange risk although most of our revenue is realized in u.s. dollars, some portions of our revenue are realized in foreign currencies. as a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the functional currencies of our subsidiaries are their respective local currencies. accordingly, the accounts of these operations are translated from the local currency to the u.s. dollar using the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date for the balance sheet accounts, and using the average exchange rate during the period for revenue and expense accounts. the effects of translation are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity. 43 table of contents exchange gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in operations. in july 2004, we began hedging significant foreign currency firm sales commitments and accounts receivable with forward contracts. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. our forward exchange contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are reported in other comprehensive income. realized gains and losses for the effective portion are recognized with the underlying hedge transaction. the notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at january 2, 2005 was approximately $4.0 million. these contracts had a fair value of approximately $0.2 million, representing an unrealized loss, and were included in other current liabilities at january 2, 2005. as of january 2, 2005, all contracts were set to expire at various times through july 29, 2005 and are with reputable bank institutions. for the year ended january 2, 2005, there were no amounts recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness and we settled foreign exchange contracts of approximately $0.3 million. we have hedged all significant firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies, and as a result, any increase or decrease in the exchange rates of these commitments would have no net effect to our balance sheet or our results of operations.risk factors in this annual report, that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels or activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. accordingly, you should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we are not under any duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date we file this annual report on form 10-k or to conform these statements to actual results, unless required by law. you should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission. illumina , array of arrays tm , beadarray tm , dasl , goldengate , infinium tm , sentrix and oligator are our trademarks. this report also contains brand names, trademarks or service marks of companies other than illumina, and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective holders. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, www.illumina.com. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. such reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with, or furnishing to, the securities and exchange commission. the sec also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that electronically file with the sec. overview we were incorporated in april 1998. we develop and market next-generation tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and function. understanding genetic variation and function is critical to the development of personalized medicine, a key goal of genomics. using our technologies, we have developed a comprehensive line of products that are designed to provide the performance, throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility necessary to enable researchers in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries to perform the billions of tests necessary to extract medically valuable information from advances in genomics. this information is expected to correlate genetic variation and gene function with particular disease states, enhancing drug discovery, allowing diseases to be detected earlier and more specifically, and permitting better choices of drugs for individual patients. in 2001, we began commercial sale of short pieces of dna called oligonucleotides, which we refer to as oligos, manufactured using our proprietary oligator technology. we believe our oligator technology is more cost effective than competing technologies, and this advantage enabled us to market our oligos under a price leadership strategy while still achieving attractive gross margins. 2 table of contents in 2001, we commercialized the first implementation of our beadarray technology, the sentrix array matrix. this is a disposable matrix with 96 fiber optic bundles arranged in a pattern that matches the standard 96-well microtiter plate. each fiber optic bundle performs more than 1,500 unique assays, which enables researchers to perform focused genotyping experiments in a high-throughput format. this format was also used to initiate our single nucleotide polymorphism ( snp ) genotyping services product line. as a result of the increasing market acceptance of our high throughput, low cost beadarray technology, we have entered into genotyping services contracts with many leading genotyping centers, and were awarded $9.1 million from the national institutes of health to play a major role in the first phase of the international hapmap project. our production-scale beadlab is a turnkey platform that includes all hardware and software necessary to enable researchers to perform genetic analysis research on what we believe is an unprecedented scale. this system is being marketed to a small number of high-throughput genotyping users. as of january 1, 2006, we have installed and recorded revenue for 11 beadlabs. in 2003, we announced the launch of several new products, including 1) a new array format, the sentrix beadchip, which significantly expands market opportunities for our beadarray technology and provides increased experimental flexibility for life science researchers; 2) a gene expression product line on both the sentrix array matrix and the sentrix beadchip that allows researchers to analyze a focused set of genes across eight to 96 samples on a single array; and 3) a benchtop snp genotyping and gene expression system, the beadstation, for performing moderate-scale genotyping and gene expression using our technology. the beadstation includes our beadarray reader, analysis software and assay reagents and is designed to match the throughput requirements and variable automation needs of individual research groups and core labs. sales of these products began in the first quarter of 2004 and, as of january 1, 2006, we have shipped 115 beadstations. in late 2004, we announced a strategic collaboration with invitrogen corporation ( invitrogen ) to synthesize and distribute oligos. in the third quarter of 2005, we began shipping oligo products in connection with this agreement. as part of the agreement, we have developed the next generation of our oligator dna synthesis technology, which we have designed to support both plate- and tube-based capabilities. invitrogen is responsible for sales, marketing and technical support. profits from sales of collaboration products are divided equally between the two companies. in 2005, we began shipments of sentrix beadchips for whole-genome gene expression and whole-genome genotyping. the whole-genome gene expression beadchips are designed to enable high-performance, cost-effective, whole-genome expression profiling of multiple samples on a single chip, resulting in a dramatic reduction in cost of whole-genome expression analysis. our whole-genome expression product line includes multi-sample products for both the human and mouse genomes. the whole-genome genotyping beadchip is designed to scale to high levels of multiplexing without compromising data quality and to provide scientists the ability to query hundreds of thousands of snps in parallel. in the second quarter of 2005, we commenced shipment of our first whole-genome genotyping beadchip, the humanhap1, which interrogates more than 100,000 snps in parallel. in april 2005, we completed the acquisition of cyvera corporation, a privately-held connecticut-based company, pursuant to which cyvera became a wholly-owned subsidiary of illumina. we believe that cyvera digital-microbead platform will be highly complementary to our portfolio of products and services. the acquisition is expected to provide us with a comprehensive approach to bead-based assays for biomarker research and development and in-vitro and molecular diagnostic opportunities, including those that require low-complexity as well as high-complexity testing. we expect the first products based on cyvera technology to be available in the second half of 2006. the purchase price associated with the transaction was approximately $17.8 million. we allocated $15.8 million of this purchase price to acquired in-process research and development and charged such amount against earnings in the second quarter of 2005. 3 table of contents in january 2006, we began shipment of the new sentrix humanhap300 genotyping beadchip to customers around the world. using the infinium assay, which enables us to select virtually any snp in the genome, the humanhap300 beadchip offers genomic coverage for more than 317,000 snps. we selected the snp assays in collaboration with a consortium of scientists that are leaders in the genotyping field. we believe this product has quality and performance features that support our expectation that it will become an important discovery tool for researchers seeking to understand the genetic basis of common, yet complex diseases. we are seeking to continue to expand our customer base for our beadarray technology; however, we can give no assurance that our sales efforts will continue to be successful. we were incorporated in california in april 1998. we reincorporated in delaware in july 2000. our principal executive offices are located at 9885 towne centre drive, san diego, california 92121. our telephone number is (858) 202-4500. industry background genetic variation and function every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each parent. the two copies of each gene may be identical, or they may be different. these differences are referred to as genetic variation. examples of the physical consequences of genetic variation include differences in eye and hair color. genetic variation can also have important medical consequences, including predisposition to disease and differential response to drugs. genetic variation affects disease susceptibility, including predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and alzheimer disease. in addition, genetic variation may cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment. some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and still others may experience adverse side effects. a common form of genetic variation is a snp. a snp is a variation in a single position in a dna sequence. it is estimated that the human genome contains over nine million snps. while in some cases a single snp will be responsible for medically important effects, it is now believed that combinations of snps may contribute to the development of most major diseases. since there are millions of snps, it is important to investigate many representative, well-chosen snps simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable information. another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or under-expression of genes within an organism cells. a very complex network of genes interacts to produce healthy individuals. the challenge for scientists is to delineate the associated genes expression patterns and their relationship to disease. until recently, this problem was addressed by investigating effects on a gene-by-gene basis. this is time consuming, and difficulties exist when several pathways can not be observed or controlled at the same time. with the advent of microarray technology, thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time. snp genotyping snp genotyping is the process of determining which base (a, c, g or t) is present at a particular site in the genome within an individual or other organism. the use of snp genotyping to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual snp or a collection of snps, and to apply that information to clinical trials and diagnostic testing, requires the analysis of millions of snp genotypes and the testing of large populations for each disease. for example, a single large clinical trial could involve genotyping 300,000 snps per patient in 1,000 patients, thus requiring 300 million assays. using previously available technologies, this scale of snp genotyping was both impractical and prohibitively expensive. 4 table of contents large-scale snp genotyping can be used in a variety of ways, including studies designed to understand the genetic contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics-based drug development, clinical trial analysis, disease predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. snp genotyping can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the development of plants and animals with desirable commercial characteristics. these markets will require billions of snp genotyping assays annually. gene expression profiling gene expression profiling is the process of determining which genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is accomplished by measuring mrna, the intermediary messenger between genes (dna) and proteins. variation in gene expression can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease or predisposition to disease. by comparing gene expression patterns between cells from different environments, such as normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a role in these processes can be identified. studies of this type, often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and preferably tens of thousands, of mrnas in large numbers of samples. once a smaller set of genes of interest has been identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example, within a clinical trial. as gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases, gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important diagnostic tool. diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more cost-effective technologies. our technologies beadarray technology we have developed a proprietary array technology that enables the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and function. our beadarray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. our beadarray technology provides a unique combination of high throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility. we achieve high throughput with a high density of test sites per array and we are able to format arrays either in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates or in various configurations in the format of standard microscope slides. we seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive reagents and valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. our ability to vary the size, shape and format of the well patterns and to create specific bead pools, or sensors, for different applications provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments. we believe that these features have enabled our beadarray technology to become a leading platform for the emerging high-growth market of snp genotyping and expect they will enable us to become a key player in the gene expression market. our proprietary beadarray technology combines microwells etched into a substrate and specially prepared beads that self-assemble into an array. we have deployed our beadarray technology in two different sentrix array formats, the array matrix and the beadchip. our first bead-based product was the array matrix which incorporates fiber optic bundles. the fiber optic bundles, which we cut into lengths of less than one inch, are manufactured to our specifications. each bundle is comprised of approximately 50,000 individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into an aluminum plate, which forms an array matrix. beadchips are fabricated in microscope slide-shaped sizes with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. both formats are chemically etched to create tens to hundreds of thousands of wells for each sample site. 5 table of contents in a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in a batch. we make different batches of beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. the particular molecules on a bead define that bead function as a sensor. for example, we create a batch of snp sensors by attaching a particular dna sequence, or oligo, to each bead in the batch. we combine batches of coated beads to form a pool specific to the type of array we intend to create. a bead pool one milliliter in volume contains sufficient beads to produce thousands of arrays. one of the advantages of this technology is that it allows us to create universal arrays for snp genotyping, and by varying the reagent kit, we are able to use the array to test for any combination of snps. to form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the wells, one bead per well. the tens of thousands of beads in the wells comprise our individual arrays. because the beads assemble randomly into the wells, we perform a final procedure called decoding in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the array. we employ several proprietary methods for decoding, a process that requires only a few steps to identify all the beads in the array. one beneficial by-product of the decoding process is a validation of each bead in the array. this quality control test characterizes the performance of each bead and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. we ensure that each bead type on the array is sufficiently represented by including multiple copies of each bead type. multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and accuracy of the resulting data by allowing statistical processing of the results of identical beads. we believe we are the only microarray company to provide this level of quality control in the industry. an experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as dna from a patient, and introducing it to the array. the design features of our array matrix allow it to be simply dipped into a solution containing the sample, whereas our beadchip allows processing of samples on a slide-sized platform. the molecules in the sample bind to their matching molecules on the coated bead. the beadarray reader detects the matched molecules by shining a laser on the fiber optic bundle or on the beadchip. since the molecules in the sample have a structure that causes them to emit light in response to a laser, detection of a binding event is possible. this allows the measurement of the number of molecules bound to each coated bead, resulting in a quantitative analysis of the sample. oligator technology genomic applications require many different short pieces of dna that can be made synthetically, called oligos. for example, snp genotyping may require three to four different oligos per assay. a snp genotyping experiment analyzing 10,000 snps may therefore require 30,000 to 40,000 different oligos, contributing significantly to the expense of the experiment. we have developed our proprietary oligator technology for the parallel synthesis of many different oligos to meet the requirements of large-scale genomics applications. we believe that our oligator technology is substantially more cost effective and provides significantly higher throughput than available commercial alternatives. our synthesis machines are computer controlled and utilize many robotic processes to minimize the amount of labor used in the manufacturing process. in 2005, we implemented our fourth-generation oligator technology, which is capable of manufacturing up to 13,000 different oligos per run. this is an improvement over prior generations of technology where we could only manufacture approximately 3,000 oligos per run. this increase in scale was necessary to enable us to support the manufacture of oligos under our collaboration with invitrogen as well as to support our increased need for oligos, a critical component of our beadarray technology. 6 table of contents key advantages of our beadarray and oligator technologies we believe that our beadarray and oligator technologies provide distinct advantages, in a variety of applications, over competing technologies, by creating cost-effective, highly miniaturized arrays with the following advantages: high throughput. the miniaturization of our beadarray technology provides very high information content per unit area. to increase sample throughput, we have formatted our array matrix in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates, allowing throughput levels of up to nearly 150,000 unique assays per microtiter plate, and we use laboratory robotics to speed process time. similarly, we have patterned our whole-genome expression beadchips to support up to 48,000 gene expression assays for six samples with each beadchip. the oligator parallel synthesis capability allows us to manufacture the diversity of oligos necessary to support large-scale genomic applications. cost effectiveness. our array products substantially reduce the cost of experiments as a result of our proprietary manufacturing process and our ability to capitalize on cost reductions generated by advances in fiber optics, plasma etching processes, digital imaging and bead chemistry. in addition, these products require smaller reagent volumes than other array technologies, and therefore reduce reagent costs. our cost-effective oligator technology further reduces reagent costs, as well as the cost of coating beads. flexibility. a wide variety of conventional chemistries are available for attaching different molecules, such as dna, rna, proteins, and other chemicals to beads. by using beads, we are able to take advantage of these chemistries to create a wide variety of sensors, which we assemble into arrays using the same proprietary manufacturing process. in addition, we can have fiber optic bundles and beadchips manufactured in multiple shapes and sizes with wells organized in various arrangements to optimize them for different markets and market segments. in combination, the use of beads and etched wells provides the flexibility and scalability for our beadarray technology to be tailored to perform many applications in many different market segments, from drug discovery to diagnostics. our oligator technology allows us to manufacture a wide diversity of lengths and quantities of oligos. quality. the quality of our products is dependent upon each element in the system, the array, the assay used to perform the experiment and the instrumentation and software used to capture the results. each array is manufactured with a high density of beads which enables us to have multiple copies of each individual bead type. we measure the copies simultaneously and combine them into one data point. this allows us to make a comparison of each bead against its own population of identical beads, which permits the statistical calculation of a more reliable and accurate value for each data point. finally, the manufacture of the array includes a proprietary decoding step that also functions as a quality control test of every bead on every array, improving the overall quality of the data. when we develop the assays used with our products we focus on the performance, cost and ease of use. by developing assays that are easy to use, we can minimize the potential for the introduction of experimental error into the experiment. we believe that this enables the researcher to obtain high quality data from their experiments. additionally, we manufacture substantially all of the reagents used in our assays which allows us to control the quality of the product delivered to the customer. our strategy our goal is to make our beadarray platforms the industry standard for products and services utilizing array technologies. we plan to achieve this by: focusing on emerging high-growth markets; rapidly commercializing our beadlab, beadstation, sentrix array matrix and beadchip products; 7 table of contents expanding our technologies into multiple product lines and market segments; and strengthening our technological leadership. products and services the first implementation of our beadarray technology, the sentrix array matrix, is a disposable matrix with 96 fiber optic bundles arranged in a pattern that matches the standard 96-well microtiter plate. each fiber optic bundle performs more than 1,500 unique assays. the beadchip, introduced in 2003, is fabricated in multiple configurations to support multiple applications and scanning technologies. we have provided genotyping services using our proprietary beadarray technology since 2001. in addition, we have developed our first genotyping and gene expression products based on this technology. these products include disposable sentrix array matrices and beadchips, goldengate and infinium reagent kits for snp genotyping, beadarray reader scanning instruments and an evolving portfolio of custom and standard gene expression products. snp genotyping in 2001, we introduced the first commercial application of our beadarray technology by launching our snp genotyping services product line. since this launch, we have had peak days in which we operated at over two million genotypes per day based on individual samples. to our knowledge, no other genotyping platform can achieve comparable levels of throughput while delivering such high accuracy and low cost. we designed our first consumable beadarray product, the sentrix array matrix, for snp genotyping. the sentrix array matrix uses a universal format that allows it to analyze any set of snps. we have also developed reagent kits based on goldengate assay protocols and the beadarray reader, a laser scanner, which is used to read our array products. depending on throughput and automation requirements, our customers can select the system configuration to best meet their needs. for production-scale throughput, our beadlab would be appropriate, and for moderate-scale throughput, our beadstation would be selected. our beadlab includes our beadarray reader, combined with lims, standard operating procedures and analytical software and fluid handling robotics. this production-scale system was commercialized in late 2002 and when installed, this system can routinely produce millions of genotypes per day. the beadstation, a system for performing moderate-scale genotyping designed to match the throughput requirements of individual research groups and core labs, was commercialized in late 2003. the beadstation includes our beadarray reader and genotyping and/or gene expression analysis software. our beadstations are fully upgradeable to a full beadlab through various steps that add automation, sample preparation equipment and lims capability. for use in custom snp genotyping, both the beadlab and beadstation utilize goldengate assay reagents and our array matrix. in 2003, we announced the availability of an assay set for genetic linkage analysis. this standard product has been deployed in our genotyping services operation and is also sold to customers who use our snp genotyping systems. genetic linkage analysis can help identify chromosomal regions with potential disease associations across a related set of samples. in 2004, we announced a new sentrix human-1 genotyping beadchip for whole-genome genotyping. this beadchip provides to scientists the ability to interrogate over 100,000 snps located in high-value genetic regions of the human genome. in 2006, we announced the sentrix humanhap300 genotyping beadchip for larger-scale snps studies, which can assay more than 317,000 snps displayed across the entire human genome. 8 table of contents in 2005, we announced the mhc panel set, which allows the interrogation of a difficult-to -assay area of the genome, often associated with autoimmune diseases. in addition, we announced the mouse-6 and mouseref-8 gene expression beadchip allowing the study of the levels of gene expression in mouse model. gene expression profiling with the addition of application specific accessory kits, our production-scale beadlabs and beadstations are capable of performing a growing number of applications, including gene expression profiling. in 2003, we introduced our focused set gene expression products on both the sentrix array matrix and sentrix beadchip platforms. our system includes a beadarray reader for imaging sentrix array matrices and beadchips, a hybridization chamber and software for data extraction. in addition, we have developed standard gene expression products for each of the human, mouse and arabidopsis genomes with an additional panel that focuses on human toxicology. in 2005, we began shipment of the sentrix human-6 and humanref-8 expression beadchip products. both products allow large-scale expression profiling of multiple samples on a single chip and are imaged using our beadarray reader. the human-6 beadchip is designed to analyze six discrete whole-human-genome samples on one chip, interrogating in each sample approximately 48,000 transcripts from the estimated 30,000 genes in the human genome. the humanref-8 beadchip product analyzes eight samples in parallel against 24,000 transcripts from the roughly 22,000 genes represented in the consensus refseq database, a well-characterized whole-genome subset used broadly in genetic analysis. we expect that these gene expression beadchips will dramatically reduce the cost of whole-genome expression analysis, allowing researchers to expand the scale and reproducibility of large-scale biological experimentation. scanning instrumentation the beadarray reader, an instrument we developed, is a key component of both our production-scale beadlab and our benchtop beadstation. this scanning equipment uses a laser to read the results of experiments that are captured on our arrays and was designed to be used in all areas of genetic analysis that use our sentrix array matrices and sentrix beadchips. high-throughput oligo synthesis we have put in place a state of the art oligo manufacturing facility. this facility serves both the commercial needs under our collaboration with invitrogen and our internal needs. in addition to their use to coat beads, these oligos are components of the reagent kits for our beadarray products and are used for assay development. we manufacture oligos in a wide range of lengths and in several scales, with the ability to add many types of modifications. we offer a range of quality control options and have implemented a laboratory information management system to control much of the manufacturing process. in 2003, we introduced the first standard product offerings in our oligator product line, a whole-genome oligo reference set designed and optimized for spotted gene expression microarrays, and in 2004, we introduced a mouse genome oligo set, also for use on spotted gene expression arrays. in 2005, we stopped selling oligos directly into the market and began shipping oligos under our collaboration with invitrogen. 9 table of contents collaboration with invitrogen corporation in december 2004, we entered into a strategic collaboration with invitrogen. the goal of the collaboration is to combine our expertise in oligo manufacturing with the sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of invitrogen. in connection with the collaboration, we have developed the next generation oligator dna synthesis technology. this technology includes both plate- and tube-based capabilities. under the terms of the agreement, invitrogen paid us an upfront non-refundable collaboration payment of $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2005. additionally, upon the achievement of a certain milestone, invitrogen was obligated to make a milestone payment of $1.1 million to us. as of january 1, 2006, this milestone has been achieved and the milestone payment was received. we have used these funds to invest in our san diego facility to enable the development and implementation of fourth-generation oligator technology and to extend the technology into tube-based oligo products. we began manufacturing and shipping the plate-based and certain tube-based oligo products under the collaboration in the third quarter of 2005. in addition, the agreement provides for the transfer of our oligator technology into two invitrogen facilities outside north america. collaboration profit from the sale of collaboration products will be divided equally between the two companies. research and development we have made substantial investments in research and development since our inception. we have assembled a team of skilled engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology, chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems, software, manufacturing and other related areas required to complete the development of our products. our research and development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required to optimize our beadarray and oligator technologies and to support commercialization of the products and services derived from these technologies. these efforts include the following, among others: we enhanced the quality and manufacturing yield of our sentrix array matrices and beadchips. we are exploring ways to continue to increase the level of automation in the manufacturing process to further reduce the time and cost of producing arrays. we intend to add capacity to manufacture sentrix array matrices and beadchips throughout 2006. we believe this additional capacity will allow us to manufacture our products in sufficient quantity to meet our business plan for 2006. we introduced a number of initiatives in 2002 and 2003 to improve the yield and quality of our oligos while reducing cost substantially. by refining our understanding of the design and operation of our oligator technology, we have been able to make numerous changes in our process, which we believe provides us a more cost effective system than competing technologies. in 2005, we expanded our oligator technology under the collaboration agreement with invitrogen discussed above. in addition, we expanded our oligo manufacturing facility to support high volume shipments. we have developed the beadarray reader, a laser scanning instrument that scans our sentrix array platforms. laser scanners provide the high sensitivity and resolution required to address the extremely dense geometries of our bead-based arrays. we made the first commercial shipments of our scanners in the first quarter of 2003 as part of our beadlab. we completed development of and launched our direct hyb and dasl gene expression assays on both array formats. we believe the combination of our gene expression products flexibility and low-per-sample cost will enable larger and more meaningful gene expression studies. 10 table of contents we completed the cyvera acquisition, which we believe provides us with a comprehensive approach to bead-based assays for biomarker research and development and in-vitro and molecular diagnostic opportunities, including those that require low complexity as well as high-complexity testing. we believe the cyvera technology will be highly complementary to our own portfolio of products and services. we believe it will enhance our capabilities to service our existing customers and accelerate the development of additional technologies, products and services. we completed the development and launch of our infinium whole-genome genotyping solution. this family of products offers a flexible beadchip design and high density architecture. infinium whole-genome genotyping products are based on our beadarray technology and provide the industry only 100% quality control, with an average 30-fold feature redundancy. the revolutionary infinium assays and corresponding sentrix beadchips allow large-scale interrogation of variation in the human genome. we have been exploring the underlying molecular biology and chemistry issues related to developing assays and performing experiments on our beadarray platforms. by improving our processes and protocols, we have substantially increased the number of assays we can process simultaneously in a single sample on our arrays. our research and development expenses for 2005, 2004 and 2003 (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of $0.1 million, $0.3 million, and $1.3 million, respectively) were $27.7 million, $21.1 million and $22.5 million, respectively. as compared to 2005, we expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars during 2006, as we continue to expand our research and product development efforts, but decrease as a percentage of overall revenue in 2006. government grants government grants allow us to fund internal scientific programs and exploratory research. we retain ownership of all intellectual property and commercial rights generated during these projects, subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up license to practice, for or on behalf of the united states, inventions made with federal funds. this license is retained by the u.s. government as provided by applicable statutes and regulations. we do not believe that the retained license will have any impact on our ability to market our products, and we do not need government approval with respect to this license in order to enter into collaborations or other relationships with third parties. we were the recipient of a grant from the national institutes of health covering our participation in the first phase of the international hapmap project, which is a $100 million, internationally funded successor project to the human genome project that will help identify a map of genetic variations that may be used to perform disease-related research. we received $9.1 million of funding for this project which covered basic research activities, the development of snp assays and the genotyping to be performed on those assays, all of which was earned in prior years, except for approximately $0.8 million, which was recognized as revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2005. intellectual property we have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of february 1, 2006, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to, 38 issued u.s. patents and 102 pending u.s. patent applications, including six allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent application. our issued patents, which cover various aspects of our array, assay, oligo synthesis, instrument and chemical detection technologies, expire between 2011 and 2022. we are seeking to extend this patent protection on our beadarray, dasl, goldengate, infinium, cyvera, oligator, sentrix, array of arrays and related technologies. we have received or filed counterparts for many of these patents and applications in one or more foreign countries. 11 table of contents we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and trademark protection, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our copyrights and trade secrets, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products used with our beadarray, dasl, goldengate, infinium, sentrix, array of arrays, cyvera and oligator technologies. we are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements with third parties, which grant us rights to use key aspects of our array technology, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits and scanning equipment. we have exclusive licenses from tufts university to patents that cover our use of beadarray technology. these patents were filed by dr. david walt, a member of our board of directors, the chairman of our scientific advisory board and one of our founders. our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2010 and 2019. in 2001, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with amersham biosciences that covers certain technology contained in our beadarray reader. in 2002, we obtained a non-exclusive license from dade behring marburg gmbh that relates to certain components of our goldengate assay. we also have additional nonexclusive licenses from various third parties for other components of our products. in all cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation and require that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect. marketing and distribution our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. these experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and agricultural research. our potential customers include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and consumer products companies, as well as academic or private research centers. the genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its size and speed of development will be ultimately driven by, among other items: the ability of the research community to extract medically valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment; the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation required to study genetic variation and function; and the availability of government and private industry funding to perform the research required to extract medically relevant information from genomic analysis. we market and distribute our products directly to customers in north america, major european markets, japan and singapore. in each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service and application support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their respective customer bases. in markets outside of these areas, primarily the pacific rim countries and europe, we sell our products and provide services to customers through distributors that specialize in life science products. we expect to significantly increase our sales and distribution resources during 2006 and beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the number of customers that can use our products. in 2004, we entered into a strategic collaboration with invitrogen with a goal of leveraging our strength in oligo synthesis with invitrogen extensive sales, marketing and distribution channels. we transitioned all responsibility for oligo sales, marketing and technical support to invitrogen in the beginning of the third quarter of 2005. 12 table of contents manufacturing we manufacture our array platforms, reagent kits, scanning equipment and oligos in-house and believe that we currently have the ability to manufacture these in sufficient quantity to meet our business plan for 2006. we currently depend upon outside suppliers for materials used in the manufacture of our products. we intend to continue, and may extend, the outsourcing of portions of our manufacturing process to subcontractors where we determine it is in our best commercial interests. during 2001, we moved into a new facility which allowed us to design the manufacturing areas to fit our specific processes, and optimize material flow and personnel movement. in addition, we have implemented information management systems for many of our manufacturing and services operations to manage all aspects of material and sample use. we adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances. competition although we expect that our beadarray products and services will provide significant advantages over currently available products and services, we expect to encounter intense competition from other companies that offer products and services for the snp genotyping and gene expression markets. these include companies such as aclara biosciences (acquired by virologic), affymetrix, agilent, amersham biosciences (acquired by ge corp. and now named ge healthcare), applied biosystems, beckman coulter, caliper technologies, luminex, parallele bioscience (acquired by affymetrix), perlegen sciences, nimblegen, sequenom and third wave technologies. some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we do. in addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we need to address and in some cases a large installed base of systems. each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase in the future. in order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over the existing products. rapid technological development may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete. products offered by us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more effective products based on similar or other technologies. although we believe that our technology and products will offer advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. segment and geographic information we operate in one business segment, for the development, manufacture and commercialization of tools for genetic analysis. our operations are treated as one segment as we only report operating results on an aggregate basis to chief operating decision makers of illumina. during 2005, $28.0 million, or 38%, of our total revenue came from customers outside the united states, as compared to $26.4 million, or 52%, in 2004. sales to territories outside of the united states are generally denominated in u.s. dollars. we expect that sales to international customers will be an important and growing source of revenue. we have sales support resources in western europe and direct sales offices in japan, singapore and china. in addition, we have distributor relationships in various countries in the pacific rim region and europe. information about the geographies in which we operate can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements at note 11, segment information, geographic data and significant customers. 13 table of contents seasonality historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and highest in the fourth quarter of the calendar year as academic customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the government fiscal year. environmental matters we are dedicated to the protection of our employees and the environment. our operations require the use of hazardous materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. we believe we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur. in addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance. employees as of january 1, 2006, we had a total of 375 employees, 73 of whom hold ph.d. degrees. 44 of our employees with ph.d. degrees are engaged in full-time research and development activities. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our employee relations to be positive. executive officers our executive officers as of february 1, 2006, are as follows: name age position jay t. flatley 53 president, chief executive officer and director christian o. henry 37 vice president, chief financial officer tristan b. orpin 39 vice president of worldwide sales john r. stuelpnagel, dvm 48 co-founder, senior vice president, chief operating officer and director jay t. flatley has served as our president, chief executive officer and a director since october 1999. prior to joining illumina, mr. flatley was co-founder, president, chief executive officer and a director of molecular dynamics, a life sciences company, from may 1994 to september 1999. he served in various other positions with that company from 1987 to 1994. from 1985 to 1987, mr. flatley was vice president of engineering and vice president of strategic planning at plexus computers, a unix computer company. mr. flatley also serves as a director at genvault. mr. flatley holds a b.a. in economics from claremont mckenna college and a b.s. and m.s. in industrial engineering from stanford university. christian o. henry joined illumina in june 2005 as vice president and chief financial officer. he is responsible for worldwide financial operations, controllership functions and facilities management. mr. henry served previously as the chief financial officer for tickets.com, a publicly traded, online ticket provider that was recently acquired by major league baseball advanced media, lp. prior to that, mr. henry was vice president, finance and corporate controller of affymetrix, inc., a publicly traded life sciences company. he previously held a similar position at nektar therapeutics (formerly inhale therapeutic systems, inc.). mr. henry received a ba in biochemistry and cell biology from the university of california, san diego, and an m.b.a. from the university of california, irvine. mr. henry is a certified public accountant. 14 table of contents tristan b. orpin has served as our vice president of worldwide sales since december 2002. prior to joining us, mr. orpin was the vice president of sales and marketing at sequenom, a genomics company, from august 2001 to november 2002, and was director of sales and marketing at sequenom from september 1999 to august 2001. from december 1988 to september 1999, mr. orpin served in several senior sales and marketing positions at bio-rad laboratories, a life sciences company. mr. orpin received his bsc. in biochemistry from the university of melbourne. john r. stuelpnagel, d.v.m., one of our founders, is our senior vice president and chief operating officer and has been a director since april 1998. from october 1999 to april 2002, he served as our vice president of business development. from april 1998 to october 1999, he served as our acting president and chief executive officer and was acting chief financial officer through april 2000. while founding illumina, dr. stuelpnagel was an associate with cw group, a venture capital firm, from june 1997 to september 1998 and with catalyst partners, a venture capital firm, from august 1996 to june 1997. dr. stuelpnagel received his b.s. in biochemistry and his doctorate in veterinary medicine from the university of california, davis and his m.b.a. from the university of california, los angeles. item 1a. risk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our commercial success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and the ability to protect our own intellectual property. affymetrix, inc. filed a complaint against us in july 2004, alleging infringement of six of its patents, and other third parties have asserted or may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents and claim that use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. we may incur the same costs and diversions in enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights against others. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. in that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and to attain profitability. 15 table of contents we expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. this would limit our ability to compete and achieve profitability. if we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and function and other applications using technologies such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, next-generation dna sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. we anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. the markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we have. furthermore, the life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. if we are unable to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. we may encounter difficulties in integrating recently completed or future acquisitions that could adversely affect our business. in 2005, we acquired cyvera corporation and may in the future acquire technology, products or businesses related to our current or future business. we have limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to complete acquisitions. further, these potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business. for example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a company operations, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. an acquisition may further strain our existing financial and managerial resources, and divert management attention away from our other business concerns. in connection with the cyvera acquisition, we assumed certain liabilities and hired certain employees of cyvera, which is expected to result in an increase in research and development expenses and our capital expenditures. there may also be unanticipated costs and liabilities associated with an acquisition that could adversely affect our operating results. we have only recently achieved profitability and may not be able to remain profitable. we have incurred net losses each year since our inception. as of january 1, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $144.6 million and we incurred a net loss of $20.9 million for the year ended january 1, 2006. we recorded a modest profit in the fourth quarter of 2005 and we may not be profitable in 2006, due in part to the impact of statement of financial accounting standard ( sfas ) no. 123r, which is expected to add additional expense of $9.0 million to $12.0 million in 2006. our ability to maintain or increase profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. we expect to continue incurring significant expenses for research and development, for developing our manufacturing capabilities and for sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products. in addition, we expect that our selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the launch of new products. as a result, we expect that our operating expenses will increase significantly as we grow and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to maintain profitability. even if we maintain profitability, we may not be able to increase profitability on a quarterly basis. 16 table of contents the growth and profitability of our oligo business depends on a third party. in december 2004, we entered into a collaboration agreement with invitrogen to sell and market our oligos worldwide. under the terms of the collaboration, invitrogen is responsible for sales, marketing and technical support, while we are responsible for the manufacture of the collaboration products. as invitrogen is solely responsible for the sales and marketing support of the collaboration, our continued growth and profitability related to these products depends on the extent to which invitrogen is successful in penetrating the oligo market and selling the collaboration products. if invitrogen is not successful in selling the collaboration products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we have a limited history of commercial sales of systems and consumable products, and our success depends on our ability to develop commercially successful products and on market acceptance of our new and relatively unproven technologies. we may not possess all of the resources, capability and intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize all the products or services that may result from our technologies. sales of our genotyping and gene expression systems only began in 2003, and some of our other technologies are in the early stages of commercialization or are still in development. you should evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting similarly situated companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. we must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before some of our products will be ready for sale and we currently have fewer resources available for research and development activities than many of our competitors. we may not be able to develop or launch new products in a timely manner, or at all, or they may not meet customer requirements or be of sufficient quality or at a price that enables us to compete effectively in the marketplace. problems frequently encountered in connection with the development or early commercialization of products and services using new and relatively unproven technologies might limit our ability to develop and successfully commercialize these products and services. in addition, we may need to enter into agreements to obtain intellectual property necessary to commercialize some of our products or services, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. historically, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies have analyzed genetic variation and function using a variety of technologies. in order to be successful, our products must meet the commercial requirements of the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries as tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and function. market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: our ability to demonstrate to potential customers the benefits and cost effectiveness of our products and services relative to others available in the market; the extent and effectiveness of our efforts to market, sell and distribute our products; our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies requiring capital investments; and the extended time lag and sales expenses involved between the time a potential customer is contacted on a possible sale of our products and services and the time the sale is consummated or rejected by the customer. 17 table of contents any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. these problems can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. the patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship may also arise. for example, a former employee recently filed a complaint against us, claiming he is entitled to be named as joint inventor of certain of our u.s. patents and pending u.s. and foreign patents and seeking a judgment that the related patents and applications are unenforceable. see item 3. legal proceedings for a description of this complaint. any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain licenses to practice the technology, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. there also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. we also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. we have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. in addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 18 table of contents our manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our products. we are currently ramping up our capacity to meet our anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe that we have plans in place to help ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan in 2006, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facility and launch new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. we currently have fewer resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services as compared to our primary competitors. in order to effectively commercialize our genotyping and gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. we may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. in addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies, that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. if we are unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we currently possess only one facility capable of manufacturing our products and services for both sale to our customers and internal use. if a natural disaster were to significantly damage our facility or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from developing and manufacturing our products and services. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system ( lims ). additionally, as part of the decoding step in our array manufacturing process, we record several images of each array to identify what bead is in each location on the array and to validate each bead in the array. this requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it would adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and may prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. 19 table of contents if we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. the nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. for example, we currently obtain the fiber optic bundles and beadchip slides included in our products from single vendors. if we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. these difficulties could increase our losses. we expect to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. if we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our losses could increase. our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. we may need additional capital in the future. if additional capital is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail or cease operations. our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors including our ability to successfully market our genetic analysis systems and services, the need for capital expenditures to support and expand our business, the progress and scope of our research and development projects, the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims, the outcome of our legal proceedings with affymetrix, the defense of any future litigation involving us and the need to enter into collaborations with other companies or acquire other companies or technologies to enhance or complement our product and service offerings. we anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, revenue from sales and funding from grants will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating needs, barring unforeseen developments. however, this expectation is based upon on our current operating plan, which may change as a result of many factors. consequently, we may need additional funding in the future. our inability to raise capital would seriously harm our business and product development efforts. in addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations, such as an acquisition, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. we currently have no credit facility or committed sources of capital available as of january 1, 2006. to the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies. these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. if adequate funds are not available on attractive terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. 20 table of contents if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer and john stuelpnagel, our senior vice president and chief operating officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. the failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. a significant portion of our sales are to international customers. approximately 38% of our revenue for the year ended january 1, 2006 was derived from customers outside the united states. we intend to continue to expand our international presence and export sales to international customers and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. export sales entail a variety of risks, including: currency exchange fluctuations; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. in addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. we are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 table of contents our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and function, namely snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. both of these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and function. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. we expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, the timing and amount of government grant funding programs and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to -quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly. accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our revenue growth in 2006 or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenues. due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price probably would decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. 46 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk although most of our revenue is realized in u.s. dollars, some portions of our revenue are realized in foreign currencies. as a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the functional currencies of our subsidiaries are their respective local currencies. accordingly, the accounts of these operations are translated from the local currency to the u.s. dollar using the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date for the balance sheet accounts, and using the average exchange rate during the period for revenue and expense accounts. the effects of translation are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity. exchange gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in operations. in july 2004, we began hedging significant foreign currency firm sales commitments and accounts receivable with forward contracts. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. our forward exchange contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are reported in other comprehensive income. realized gains and losses for the effective portion are recognized with the underlying hedge transaction. the notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at january 1, 2006 and january 2, 2005 were $0.1 million and $4.0 million, respectively. as of january 1, 2006, we had one foreign currency forward contract outstanding. this contract had a fair value of $882, representing an unrealized gain, and was included in other current assets at january 1, 2006. this contract is set to expire in march 2006 and is with a reputable bank institution. as of january 2, 2005, the outstanding contracts had a fair value of $0.2 million, representing an unrealized loss, and were included in other current liabilities at january 2, 2005. we settled foreign exchange contracts of $5.2 million and $0.3 million for the years ended january 1, 2006 and january 2, 2005, respectively. our hedging program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we believe we have hedged all significant firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies, and as a result, any increase or decrease in the exchange rates of these commitments would have no material net effect to our balance sheet or our results of operations. the company did not hold any derivative financial instruments prior to fiscal 2004.risk factors in this annual report, that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels or activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. accordingly, you should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we are not under any duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date we file this annual report on form 10-k or to conform these statements to actual results, unless required by law. you should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission. illumina , array of arrays tm , beadarray tm , beadxpress tm , cspro tm , dasl , goldengate , infinium , intellihyb tm , iselect tm , making sense out of life , oligator , sentrix , veracode tm , solexa , mpss tm are our trademarks. this report also contains brand names, trademarks or service marks of companies other than illumina, and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective holders. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, www.illumina.com. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. such reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with, or furnishing to, the securities and exchange commission. the sec also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that electronically file with the sec. overview we are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of next-generation life science tools and integrated systems for the large scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive line of products and services that currently serve the sequencing, genotyping and gene expression markets, and we expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. our customers include leading genomic research centers, pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical research organizations and biotechnology companies. our tools provide researchers around the world with the performance, throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility necessary to perform the billions of genetic tests needed to extract valuable medical information from advances in genomics and proteomics. we believe this information will enable researchers to correlate genetic variation and biological function, which will enhance drug discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be detected earlier and permit better choices of drugs for individual patients. 2 table of contents on january 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of solexa, inc. (solexa) for approximately 13.1 million shares of our common stock. solexa develops and commercializes genetic analysis technologies used to perform a range of analyses, including whole genome resequencing, gene expression analysis and small rna analysis. we believe our combined company is the only company with genome-scale technology for genotyping, gene expression and sequencing, the three cornerstones of modern genetic analysis. we were incorporated in california in april 1998. we reincorporated in delaware in july 2000. our principal executive offices are located at 9885 towne centre drive, san diego, california 92121. our telephone number is (858) 202-4500. industry background genetic variation and biological function every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each parent. the two copies of each gene may be identical, or they may be different. these differences are referred to as genetic variation. examples of the physical consequences of genetic variation include differences in eye and hair color. genetic variation can also have important medical consequences. genetic variation affects disease susceptibility, including predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and alzheimer disease. in addition, genetic variation may cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment. some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and still others may experience adverse side effects. a common form of genetic variation is a single-nucleotide polymorphism, or snp. a snp is a variation in a single position in a dna sequence. it is estimated that the human genome contains over nine million snps. while in some cases a single snp will be responsible for medically important effects, it is now believed that combinations of snps may contribute to the development of most major diseases. since there are millions of snps, it is important to investigate many representative, well-chosen snps simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable information. another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or under-expression of genes within an organism cells. a very complex network of genes interacts to maintain health in complex organisms. the challenge for scientists is to delineate the associated genes expression patterns and their relationship to disease. until recently, this problem was addressed by investigating effects on a gene-by-gene basis. this is time consuming, and difficulties exist when several pathways cannot be observed or controlled at the same time. with the advent of microarray technology, thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time. snp genotyping snp genotyping is the process of determining which base (a, c, g or t) is present at a particular site in the genome within an individual or other organism. the use of snp genotyping to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual snp or a collection of snps, and to apply that information to clinical trials and diagnostic testing, requires the analysis of millions of snp genotypes and the testing of large populations for each disease. for example, a single large clinical trial could involve genotyping 300,000 snps per patient in 1,000 patients, thus requiring 300 million assays. using previously available technologies, this scale of snp genotyping was both impractical and prohibitively expensive. large-scale snp genotyping can be used in a variety of ways, including studies designed to understand the genetic contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics-based drug development, clinical trial analysis, disease predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. snp genotyping can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the development of plants and animals with desirable commercial characteristics. these markets will require billions of snp genotyping assays annually. 3 table of contents gene expression profiling gene expression profiling is the process of determining which genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is accomplished by measuring mrna, the intermediary messenger between genes (dna) and proteins. variation in gene expression can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease or predisposition to disease. by comparing gene expression patterns between cells from different environments, such as normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a role in these processes can be identified. studies of this type, often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and preferably tens of thousands, of mrnas in large numbers of samples. once a smaller set of genes of interest has been identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example, within a clinical trial. as gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases, gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important diagnostic tool. diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more cost-effective technologies. sequencing dna sequencing is the process of determining the order of bases (a, c, g or t) in a dna sample, which can be further divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing, and tag sequencing. in de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine the sequence of a representative individual from a species never before sequenced. understanding the similarities and differences in dna sequence between many species can help to improve our understanding of the function of the structures found in the dna. in re-sequencing, one determines the sequences of many individuals from the same species, generally comparing each to a standard or reference sequence. this is an extremely comprehensive form of genotyping, in which every single base is characterized for possible mutations. mutations tend to fall in two categories: those which occur fairly frequently at a tiny fraction of bases (e.g. at about 0.1% of bases in humans), and those which occur much less frequently but at a large number of locations. both types can contribute to diseases. genotyping can subsequently be used to characterize the former, but re-sequencing is used to assay the latter. with the merger of illumina and solexa, we will have state-of-the-art technologies for both. in tag sequencing, short sequences, each representative of a larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted. in these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen provides quantification of an underlying biological process. as an example, in digital gene expression, one tag sequence may exist for each gene, and the number of copies of this tag which are detected in an experiment is a measure of how actively that gene is being expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed. 4 table of contents our technologies beadarray technology we have developed a proprietary array technology that enables the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. our beadarray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. our beadarray technology provides a unique combination of high throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility. we achieve high throughput with a high density of test sites per array and we are able to format arrays either in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates or in various configurations in the format of standard microscope slides. we seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive reagents and valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. our ability to vary the size, shape and format of the well patterns and to create specific bead pools, or sensors, for different applications provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments. we believe that these features have enabled our beadarray technology to become a leading platform for the emerging high-growth market of snp genotyping and expect they will enable us to become a key player in the gene expression market. our proprietary beadarray technology combines microwells etched into a substrate and specially prepared beads that self-assemble into an array. we have deployed our beadarray technology in two different array formats, the array matrix and the beadchip. our first bead-based product was the array matrix which incorporates fiber optic bundles. the fiber optic bundles, which we cut into lengths of less than one inch, are manufactured to our specifications. each bundle is comprised of approximately 50,000 individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into an aluminum plate, which forms an array matrix. beadchips are fabricated in microscope slide-shaped sizes with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. both formats are chemically etched to create tens to hundreds of thousands of wells for each sample site. in a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in a batch. we make different batches of beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. the particular molecules on a bead define that bead function as a sensor. for example, we create a batch of snp sensors by attaching a particular dna sequence, or oligo, to each bead in the batch. we combine batches of coated beads to form a pool specific to the type of array we intend to create. a bead pool one milliliter in volume contains sufficient beads to produce thousands of arrays. to form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the wells, one bead per well. the tens of thousands of beads in the wells comprise our individual arrays. because the beads assemble randomly into the wells, we perform a final procedure called decoding in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the array. we employ several proprietary methods for decoding, a process that requires only a few steps to identify all the beads in the array. one beneficial by-product of the decoding process is a validation of each bead in the array. this quality control test characterizes the performance of each bead and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. we ensure that each bead type on the array is sufficiently represented by including multiple copies of each bead type. multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and accuracy of the resulting data by allowing statistical processing of the results of identical beads. we believe we are the only microarray company to provide this level of quality control in the industry. 5 table of contents an experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as dna from a patient, and introducing it to the array. the design features of our array matrix allow it to be simply dipped into a solution containing the sample, whereas our beadchip allows processing of samples on a slide-sized platform. the molecules in the sample bind to their matching molecules on the coated bead. these molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with a fluorescent dye either before or after the binding. the beadarray reader detects the fluorescent dye by shining a laser on the fiber optic bundle or on the beadchip. this allows the detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis of the sample. veracode technology the beadarray technology is most effective in applications which require mid- to high levels of multiplexing from low to high levels of throughput. multiplexing refers to the number of individual pieces of information that are simultaneously extracted from one sample. we believe the molecular diagnostics market will require systems which are extremely high throughput and cost effective in the mid- to low-multiplex range. to address this market, we acquired the veracode technology through our acquisition of cyvera corporation in april 2005. based on digitally encoded microbeads, veracode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to 384-plex in a single well. we plan to implement the veracode technology using our newly designed beadxpress system and our existing assays. we believe that this system will enable lower multiplex genotyping, gene expression and protein based assays. in the research market, we expect our customers to utilize our beadarray technology for their higher multiplex projects and then move to our beadxpress system for their lower multiplex projects utilizing the same assays. additionally, we believe that the cost and multiplex advantages of the beadxpress system using our veracode technology will be welcomed in the molecular diagnostics market. we expect to launch the beadxpress system during the first quarter of 2007, along with several assays for the system. oligator technology genomic applications require many different short pieces of dna that can be made synthetically, called oligos. we have developed our proprietary oligator technology for the parallel synthesis of many different oligos to meet the requirements of large-scale genomics applications. we believe that our oligator technology is substantially more cost effective and provides significantly higher throughput than available commercial alternatives. our synthesis machines are computer controlled and utilize many robotic processes to minimize the amount of labor used in the manufacturing process. in 2005, we implemented our fourth-generation oligator technology, which is capable of manufacturing over 13,000 different oligos per run. this is an improvement over prior generations of technology where we could only manufacture approximately 3,000 oligos per run. this increase in scale was necessary to enable us to support the manufacture of oligos under our collaboration with invitrogen as well as to support our increased internal need for oligos, a critical component of our beadarray technology, for product sales and new product development. 6 table of contents sequencing technology our dna sequencing technology, acquired as part of the solexa merger which was completed on january 26, 2007, is based on use of our sequencing-by-synthesis (sbs) biochemistry. in sbs, single stranded dna is extended from a priming site, one base at a time, using reversible terminator nucleotides. these are dna bases which can be added to a growing second strand, but which initially cannot be further extended. this means that at each cycle of the chemistry, only one base can be added. each base which is added includes a fluorescent label which is specific to the particular base. thus following incorporation, the fluorescence can be imaged, its color determined, and the base itself can be inferred. once this is done, an additional step removes both the fluorescence and the block that had prevented further extension of the second strand. this allows another base to be added, and the cycle can be repeated. we have shown data in which this cycle is repeated up to 50 times, thus determining dna sequences which are up to 50 bases long. this may well increase in the future as we further develop this technology. the reversible terminator bases which we use are novel synthetic molecules which we manufacture. they are not well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so we have also developed proprietary enzymes for this purpose. both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant intellectual property. in our dna sequencing systems, we apply the sbs biochemistry on microscopic islands of dna. these are called dna clusters. each cluster starts as a single dna molecule, typically a few hundred bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow cell. we then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to create copies of each starting molecule. as the copies are made, they are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot diffuse away. after a number of cycles of amplification, each cluster might have 500 to 1,000 copies of the original starting molecule, but still be only about a micron (one-millionth of a meter) in diameter. by making so many copies, the fluorescent signal from each cluster is significantly increased. because the clusters are so small though, tens of millions of clusters can be independently formed inside a single flow cell. this large number of clusters can then be sequenced simultaneously, by alternate cycles of sbs biochemistry and electronic imaging. key advantages of our technology we believe that our technology provides distinct advantages, in a variety of applications, over competing technologies, by creating cost-effective, highly miniaturized arrays with the following characteristics: high throughput. the miniaturization of our beadarray technology provides very high information content per unit area. to increase sample throughput, we have formatted our array matrix in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates, allowing throughput levels of up to nearly 150,000 unique assays per microtiter plate, and we use laboratory robotics to speed process time. similarly, we have patterned our whole-genome expression beadchips to support up to 48,000 gene expression assays for six samples with each beadchip, and our whole-genome genotyping beadchips to support up to 650,000 genotypes with each beadchip. our infinium and goldengate assays are supported by full automation and lims to address high throughput laboratories. our illumina genome analyzer can analyze the dna sequences of tens of millions of clusters at one time. cost effectiveness. our array products substantially reduce the cost of our customers experiments as a result of our proprietary manufacturing process and our ability to capitalize on cost reductions generated by advances in fiber optics, plasma etching processes, digital imaging and bead chemistry. in addition, our products require smaller reagent volumes than other array technologies, thereby reducing reagent costs for our customers. our oligator technology further reduces reagent costs, as well as reducing our cost of coating beads used in our beadarray and veracode technologies. we expect the illumina genome analyzer to allow dna sequencing at 1/100th of the cost of conventional capillary instruments. 7 table of contents flexibility. we are able to offer flexible solutions to our customers based on our ability to attach different kinds of molecules, including dna, rna, proteins and other chemicals, to our beads. in addition, we can have beadchips manufactured in multiple shapes and sizes with wells organized in various arrangements to optimize them for different markets and market segments. in combination, the use of beads and etched wells provides the flexibility and scalability for our beadarray technology to be tailored to perform many applications in many different market segments, from drug discovery to diagnostics. our oligator technology allows us to manufacture a wide diversity of lengths and quantities of oligos. dna sequences determined with our illumina genome analyzer can also be used to identify larger dna or rna molecules from which the sequences have been derived, which leads to a series of applications based on tag sequencing, including digital gene expression analysis and microrna discovery and quantification. quality and reproducibility. the quality of our products is dependent upon each element in the system the array, the assay used to perform the experiment and the instrumentation and software used to capture the results. each array is manufactured with a high density of beads, which enables us to have multiple copies of each individual bead type. we measure the copies simultaneously and combine them into one data point. this allows us to make a comparison of each bead against its own population of identical beads, which permits the statistical calculation of a more reliable and accurate value for each data point. finally, the manufacture of the array includes a proprietary decoding step that also functions as a quality control test of every bead on every array, improving the overall quality of the data. when we develop the assays used with our products, we focus on performance, cost and ease of use. by developing assays that are easy to use, we can reduce the potential for the introduction of error into the experiment. we believe that this enables researchers to obtain high quality and reproducible data from their experiments. additionally, we manufacture substantially all of the reagents used in our assays, allowing us to control the quality of the product delivered to the customer. our strategy our goal is to make our beadarray, beadxpress and illumina genome analyzer platforms the industry standard for products and services addressing the genetic analysis markets. we plan to achieve this by: focusing on emerging high-growth markets; rapidly commercializing our beadlab, beadstation, beadxpress, illumina genome analyzer, array matrix and beadchip products; expanding our technologies into multiple product lines, applications and market segments; and strengthening our technological leadership. products and services the first implementation of our beadarray technology, the array matrix, is a disposable matrix with 96 fiber optic bundles arranged in a pattern that matches the standard 96-well microtiter plate. each fiber optic bundle performs more than 1,500 unique assays. the beadchip, introduced in 2003, is fabricated in multiple configurations to support multiple applications and scanning technologies. we have provided genotyping services using our proprietary beadarray technology since 2001. in addition, we have developed our first genotyping and gene expression products based on this technology. these products include disposable array matrices and beadchips, goldengate and infinium reagent kits for snp genotyping, beadarray reader scanning instruments and an evolving portfolio of custom and standard gene expression products. 8 table of contents snp genotyping in 2001, we introduced the first commercial application of our beadarray technology by launching our snp genotyping services product line. since this launch, we have had peak days in which we operated at over 60 million genotypes per day. to our knowledge, no other genotyping platform can achieve comparable levels of throughput while delivering such high accuracy and low cost. we designed our first consumable beadarray product, the array matrix, for snp genotyping. the array matrix uses a universal format that allows it to analyze any set of snps. we have also developed reagent kits based on goldengate assay protocols and the beadarray reader, a laser scanner, which is used to read our array products. depending on throughput and automation requirements, our customers can select the system configuration to best meet their needs. for production-scale throughput, our beadlab would be appropriate, and for moderate-scale throughput, our beadstation would be selected. our beadlab includes our beadarray reader, combined with lims, standard operating procedures and analytical software and fluid handling robotics. this production-scale system was commercialized in late 2002 and when installed, this system can routinely produce millions of genotypes per day. the beadstation, a system for performing moderate-scale genotyping designed to match the throughput requirements of individual research groups and core labs, was commercialized in late 2003. the beadstation includes our beadarray reader and genotyping and/or gene expression analysis software. multiple beadstations can be configured to achieve different levels of desired throughput and are fully upgradeable to a full beadlab through various steps that add automation, sample preparation equipment and lims capability. in 2003, we announced the availability of an assay set for genetic linkage analysis. this standard product has been deployed in our genotyping services operation and is also sold to customers who use our snp genotyping systems. genetic linkage analysis can help identify chromosomal regions with potential disease associations across a related set of samples. in 2005, we announced the introduction of the major histocompatability complex (mhc) panel set, which allows the interrogation of a difficult-to-assay area of the genome, often associated with autoimmune diseases. in addition, we announced the introduction of mouse-6 and mouseref-8 gene expression beadchip allowing the study of the levels of gene expression in mouse model. in 2005, we commenced shipping the sentrix human-1 genotyping beadchip for whole-genome genotyping. this beadchip provides to scientists the ability to interrogate over 100,000 snps located in high-value genetic regions of the human genome. also, in the fourth quarter of 2005, we began shipping the new sentrix humanhap300 genotyping beadchip to customers around the world. using the infinium assay, which enables us to select virtually any snp in the genome, the humanhap300 beadchip allows analysis of more than 317,000 snps. we selected the snps for inclusion on the chip in collaboration with a consortium of scientists that are leaders in the genotyping field. we believe this product quality and performance support our expectation that it will become an important discovery tool for researchers seeking to understand the genetic basis of common yet complex diseases. in 2006, we introduced several new snp genotyping products, including: sentrix humanhap240s beadchip. the humanhap240s beadchip is a companion to our sentrix humanhap300 beadchip for genome-wide disease association studies that enables researchers to interrogate an additional 240,000 snps utilizing our infinium assay. we began shipment of this product in the first quarter of 2006. sentrix humanhap550 beadchip. the humanhap550 beadchip contains over 550,000 snps on a single microarray. we began shipment of this product in the second quarter of 2006. 9 table of contents sentrix humanhap650y beadchip. the humanhap650y beadchip contains over 650,000 snp markers on a single microarray, which we believe provides the most comprehensive genomic coverage and highest data quality of any whole-genome genotyping product currently available. we began shipment of this product in the third quarter of 2006. sentrix humanhap550+ beadchip. the humanhap550+ beadchip allows customers to add up to 120,000 custom snp markers to supplement the standard content provided on the existing sentrix humanhap550 beadchip, yielding up to 670,000 markers for association studies. iselect infinium genotyping products. the iselect infinium genotyping product line is used for focused content applications. customers can create a custom array of up to 60,000 snp markers per sample with 12 samples per chip. we began shipment of these products in the third quarter of 2006. humanhap300-duo and the human hap300-duo+ genotyping beadchips. the humanhap300-duo allows researchers to analyze two samples simultaneously, with over 634,000 total tag snps on a single beadchip. the humanhap300-duo+ allows for the addition of 60,000 custom snp loci to the base product, enabling researchers to enrich that product with snps of interest in any genomic region. we began shipment of the humanhap300-duo in the fourth quarter of 2006. ratref-12 expression beadchip. the ratref-12 expression beadchip enables analysis of 12 samples in parallel on a single beadchip. content for this beadchip is derived from the ncbi refseq database (release 16), with over 22,000 rat transcripts represented. we began shipment of this product in the fourth quarter of 2006. through an application called copy number polymorphisms, the humanhap family of beadchips also provides high-resolution information on amplifications, deletions and loss of heterozygosity throughout the genome, abnormalities common in cancers and congenital diseases. in addition, we announced additional standard panels in the first quarter of 2006, including mouse linkage and cancer panels. gene expression profiling with the addition of application specific accessory kits, our production-scale beadlabs and beadstations are capable of performing a growing number of applications, including gene expression profiling. in 2003, we introduced our focused set gene expression products on both the array matrix and beadchip platforms. our system includes a beadarray reader for imaging array matrices and beadchips, a hybridization chamber and software for data extraction. in addition, we have developed standard gene expression products for each of the human, mouse and arabidopsis genomes with an additional panel that focuses on human toxicology. in 2005, we began shipment of the human-6 and humanref-8 expression beadchip products. both products allow large-scale expression profiling of multiple samples on a single chip and are imaged using our beadarray reader. the human-6 beadchip is designed to analyze six discrete whole-human-genome samples on one chip, interrogating in each sample approximately 48,000 transcripts from the estimated 30,000 genes in the human genome. the humanref-8 beadchip product analyzes eight samples in parallel against 24,000 transcripts from the roughly 22,000 genes represented in the consensus refseq database, a well-characterized whole-genome subset used broadly in genetic analysis. we expect that these gene expression beadchips will dramatically reduce the cost of whole-genome expression analysis, allowing researchers to expand the scale and reproducibility of large-scale biological experimentation. in 2006, we began shipment of the ratref-12, which analyzes twelve samples in parallel against 22,226 transcripts from the roughly 21,910 genes represented in the refseq database, release 16. 10 table of contents scanning instrumentation the beadarray reader, an instrument we developed, is a key component of both our production-scale beadlab and our benchtop beadstation. this scanning equipment uses a laser to read the results of experiments that are captured on our arrays and was designed to be used in all areas of genetic analysis that use our array matrices and beadchips. in the second quarter of 2006, we began shipment of the autoloader, which automates beadchip loading and scanning and increases lab throughput. the autoloader is designed to support up to two beadarray readers simultaneously for unattended operation. high-throughput oligo synthesis we have put in place a state-of-the-art oligo manufacturing facility. this facility serves both the commercial needs under our collaboration with invitrogen and our internal needs. in addition to their use to coat beads, these oligos are components of the reagent kits for our beadarray products and are used for assay development. we manufacture oligos in a wide range of lengths and in several scales, with the ability to add many types of modifications. we offer a range of quality control options and have implemented a laboratory information management system to control much of the manufacturing process. in 2005, we stopped selling oligos directly into the market and began shipping oligos under our collaboration with invitrogen. our collaborative partners invitrogen corporation in december 2004, we entered into a strategic collaboration with invitrogen. the goal of the collaboration is to combine our expertise in oligo manufacturing with the sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of invitrogen. in connection with the collaboration, we have developed the next generation oligator dna synthesis technology. this technology includes both plate-and tube-based capabilities. under the terms of the agreement, invitrogen paid us an upfront non-refundable collaboration payment of $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2005. additionally, upon the achievement of a certain milestone, invitrogen was obligated to make a milestone payment of $1.1 million to us. during 2005, this milestone was achieved and the milestone payment was received. we used these funds to invest in our san diego facility to enable the development and implementation of fourth-generation oligator technology and to extend the technology into the larger market for tube-based oligo products. we began manufacturing and shipping the plate-based and certain tube-based oligo products under the collaboration in the third quarter of 2005. in addition, the agreement provides for the transfer of our oligator technology into two invitrogen facilities outside north america. collaboration profit from the sale of collaboration products is divided equally between the two companies. 11 table of contents decode genetics in may 2006, we executed a joint development and licensing agreement (the development agreement) with decode genetics, ehf. (decode). pursuant to the development agreement, the parties agreed to collaborate exclusively to develop, validate and commercialize specific diagnostic tests for variants in genes involved in three disease-related pathways: the gene-encoding leukotriene a4 hydrolase, linked to heart attack; the gene-encoding transcription factor 7-like 2 (tcf7l2), linked to type 2 diabetes; and the gene-encoding bard1, linked to breast cancer. with decode, we are developing diagnostic tests based on these variants for use on our beadxpress system. under the agreement, we will be responsible for the manufacturing, marketing and selling of the diagnostic products. the companies will share the development costs of these products and split the profits from sales of the diagnostics tests. the development agreement may be terminated as to a particular product under development if one party decides to discontinue funding the development of that product, and may be terminated in whole by either party if the other party commits an uncured material breach, files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent. under a separate supply agreement, we installed instrumentation at decode that will enable decode to perform whole genome association studies on up to 100,000 samples using the our sentrix humanhap300 beadchips and associated reagents. intellectual property we have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of february 1, 2007, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to, 106 issued u.s. patents and 149 pending u.s. patent applications, including five allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent application. this portfolio includes patents acquired as part of the solexa merger on january 26, 2007. our issued patents, which are directed at various aspects of our array, assay, oligo synthesis, instrument and chemical detection technologies, expire between 2011 and 2024. we are seeking to extend the patents directed at the full range of our technologies. we have received or filed counterparts for many of these patents and applications in one or more foreign countries. we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and trademark protection, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our copyrights and trade secrets, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products. we are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements with third parties, which grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits and scanning equipment. we have exclusive licenses from tufts university to patents that are directed at our use of beadarray technology. these patents were filed by dr. david walt, a member of our board of directors, the chairman of our scientific advisory board and one of our founders. our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2010 and 2020. we also have additional nonexclusive licenses from various third parties for other components of our products. in all cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation and require that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect. research and development we have made substantial investments in research and development since our inception. we have assembled a team of skilled engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology, chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems, software, manufacturing and other related areas required to complete the development of our products. our research and development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required to optimize our beadarray and oligator technologies and to support commercialization of the products and services derived from these technologies. as of december 31, 2006, we had a total of 144 employees engaged in research and development activities. 12 table of contents our research and development expenses for 2006, 2005 and 2004 (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of $3.9 million, $0.1 million, and $0.3 million, respectively) were $33.4 million, $27.8 million and $21.5 million, respectively. compared to 2006, we expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of overall revenue during 2007 as we continue to expand our research and product development efforts, including research and development projects associated with our acquisition of solexa. marketing and distribution our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. these experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and agricultural research. our potential customers include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and consumer products companies, as well as academic or private research centers. the genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its size and speed of development will be ultimately driven by, among other items: the ability of the research community to extract medically valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment; the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation required to study genetic variation and biological function; and the availability of government and private industry funding to perform the research required to extract medically relevant information from genomic analysis. we market and distribute our products directly to customers in north america, major european markets, japan and singapore. in each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service and application support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their respective customer bases. in smaller markets in the pacific rim countries and europe, we sell our products and provide services to customers through distributors that specialize in life science products. we expect to significantly increase our sales and distribution resources during 2007 and beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the number of customers that can use our products. manufacturing we manufacture our array platforms, reagent kits, scanning equipment and oligos in-house. our manufacturing capacity for beadchips has increased approximately fourfold over the level as of january 1, 2006. we intend to continue to increase capacity as needed to manufacture our products in sufficient quantity to meet our business plan for 2007. we are focused on continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of our array matrices and beadchips and are exploring ways to continue increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process. in addition, we have implemented information management systems for many of our manufacturing and services operations to manage all aspects of material and sample use. we adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances. we intend to add capacity to manufacture array matrices and beadchips throughout 2007. we currently depend upon outside suppliers for materials used in the manufacture of our products. we intend to continue, and may extend, the outsourcing of portions of our manufacturing process to subcontractors where we determine it is in our best commercial interests. 13 table of contents competition although we expect that our beadarray products and services will provide significant advantages over currently available products and services, we expect to encounter intense competition from other companies that offer products and services for the snp genotyping, gene expression and sequencing markets. these include companies such as affymetrix, agilent, amersham biosciences (acquired by ge corp. and now named ge healthcare), applera corporation, applied biosystems, beckman coulter, caliper technologies, luminex, monogram biosciences, nimblegen, perlegen sciences, roche diagnostics in partnership with 454 life sciences, sequenom and third wave technologies. some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we do. in addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we need to address and in some cases a large installed base of systems. each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase in the future. in order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over the existing products. rapid technological development may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete. products offered by us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more effective products based on similar or other technologies. although we believe that our technology and products will offer advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. segment and geographic information we operate in one business segment, for the development, manufacture and commercialization of tools for genetic analysis. our operations are treated as one segment as we only report operating results on an aggregate basis to our chief operating decision maker, our chief executive officer. during 2006, $81.5 million, or 44%, of our total revenue came from shipments to customers outside the united states, compared to $28.0 million, or 38%, in 2005. sales to territories outside of the united states are generally denominated in u.s. dollars. we expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue. we have sales support resources in western europe and direct sales offices in japan, singapore and china. in addition, we have distributor relationships in various countries in the pacific rim region and europe. seasonality historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as academic customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the government fiscal year. environmental matters we are dedicated to the protection of our employees and the environment. our operations require the use of hazardous materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. we believe we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur. in addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance. employees as of december 31, 2006, we had a total of 596 employees, 73 of whom hold ph.d. degrees. 43 of our employees with ph.d. degrees are engaged in full-time research and development activities. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our employee relations to be positive. 14 table of contents executive officers our executive officers as of february 1, 2007, are as follows: name age position jay t. flatley 54 president, chief executive officer and director christian o. henry 38 senior vice president and chief financial officer christian g. cabou 58 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary arthur l. holden 54 senior vice president of corporate and market development tristan b. orpin 40 senior vice president of commercial operations john r. stuelpnagel, dvm 49 co-founder, senior vice president and general manager, microarray business, chief operating officer and director john west 50 senior vice president and general manager of dna sequencing jay flatley is president and chief executive officer of illumina. prior to his appointment in 1999, mr. flatley was the president and chief executive officer of molecular dynamics, later acquired by amersham pharmacia biotech in 1998 and now a part of ge healthcare. mr. flatley, who was a founder and member of the board of directors for molecular dynamics, lead the company to its initial public offering (ipo) in 1993, in addition to helping the company develop and launch over 15 major instrumentation systems, including the world first capillary-based dna sequencer. prior to joining molecular dynamics, mr. flatley was vice president of engineering and strategic planning for plexus computers, a manufacturer of high-performance unix super-microcomputers. before his career at plexus, mr. flatley was executive vice president for manning technologies and held various manufacturing positions while working for the autolab division of spectra physics. mr. flatley received a bachelor of arts degree in economics from claremont mckenna college (claremont, ca) and a bachelor of science and master of science (summa cum laude) in industrial engineering from stanford university (stanford, ca). currently, he serves as a member of the board of directors of both illumina and genvault corporation. christian henry is senior vice president and chief financial officer of illumina. mr. henry joined illumina in june 2005 and is responsible for worldwide financial operations, controllership functions and facilities management. mr. henry served previously as the chief financial officer for tickets.com, a publicly traded, online ticket provider that was recently acquired by major league baseball advanced media, lp. prior to that, mr. henry was vice president, finance and corporate controller of affymetrix, inc., a publicly traded life sciences company, where he oversaw accounting, planning, sec and management reporting, and treasury and risk management. he previously held a similar position at nektar therapeutics (formerly inhale therapeutic systems, inc.). mr. henry received a bachelor of administration degree in biochemistry and cell biology from the university of california, san diego, and a master of business administration degree from the university of california, irvine. he is a certified public accountant. 15 table of contents christian cabou is senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of illumina. mr. cabou joined illumina in may 2006 and has worldwide responsibility for all legal and intellectual property matters, in addition to being responsible for the company human resources function. mr. cabou is also illumina code of ethics compliance officer. before joining illumina, mr. cabou spent five years as general counsel for ge global research and, before that, was senior counsel of global intellectual property for ge medical systems. prior to his position at ge, mr. cabou spent seven years with the law firm foley lardner where he was a partner. he had twenty years of experience in engineering design and management prior to his career in law and intellectual property. mr. cabou received a j.d. from northwestern university school of law (chicago, il.) in addition to a master of engineering management degree from northwestern university. mr. cabou was awarded a msee (equivalent) degree from the conservatoire national des arts et m tiers (paris, france) and a bachelor of science (equivalent) degree from the lyc e technique d etat (armenti res, france). arthur holden is the senior vice president of corporate and business development for illumina. mr. holden joined illumina in april 2006 and is responsible for leading business development and the development of relationships and partnerships with pharmaceutical firms, large-scale research consortia, and governmental bodies such as the national institute of health (nih) and the food and drug administration (fda). mr. holden was most recently the principal founder, chairman and chief executive officer for first genetic trust. prior to this he was chairman and chief executive officer of the snp consortium, ltd. and chief executive officer and director of celsis international, plc. from 1983 to 1994 mr. holden held various executive positions at baxter international. a winner of multiple awards, including the laura jackson achievement award for outstanding leadership in the healthcare industry, the illinois technology innovation entrepreneurship award and the strive entrepreneurial award, mr. holden currently serves on a number of commercial and non-profit boards. he is chairman of the pharmaceutical biomedical research and the serious adverse event consortia. in addition, he is chairman of the advisory board for the biotechnology management program at the j.l. kellogg graduate school of management. he is a director of ibio and the illinois technology development alliance. mr. holden earned a master of business administration degree from northwestern university kellogg school of management (chicago, il) and a bachelor of science degree from union college (schenectady, ny). tristan orpin joined illumina in december of 2002 in the role of vice president of worldwide sales, and in january of 2007 was promoted to the position of senior vice president of commercial operations. before joining illumina, mr. orpin was director of sales and marketing for sequenom from september 1999 to august 2001. later mr. orpin was elected vice president of sales and marketing and held this position from august 2001 to november 2002. prior to 2001, mr. orpin served in several senior sales and marketing positions at bio-rad laboratories. mr. orpin received a bachelor of science in genetics and biochemistry with first class honors from the university of melbourne (melbourne, australia). john stuelpnagel, d.v.m ., one of illumina co-founders, is general manager for illumina microarray business and chief operating officer. he has served as the company chief operating officer since january 2005 and a director since april 1998. from april 1998 to october 1999, he served as acting president and chief executive officer and from april 1998 to april 2000 as acting chief financial officer. between october 1999 and january 2005, dr. stuelpnagel was vice president of business development and later as senior vice president of operations. while founding illumina, dr. stuelpnagel was an associate with cw group, a venture capital firm. dr. stuelpnagel received both a bachelor of science degree in biochemistry and a doctorate degree in veterinary medicine from the university of california (davis, ca), and went on to receive a master of business administration degree from the university of california, los angeles. 16 table of contents john west is senior vice president and general manager for illumina dna sequencing business. mr. west joined illumina from solexa, where he was chief executive officer. before solexa, he was vice president of dna platforms for applied biosystems, inc. (ab) and was responsible for the company instrument and reagent products for dna sequencing, gene expression, genotyping, pcr, and dna synthesis. his group developed and launched the instruments that now populate virtually all genome sequencing centers worldwide. he also had business responsibility for ab first gene expression array system, for its real-time pcr instruments, and for its microfluidic pcr products. previously, mr. west held a number of senior positions, including president of princeton instruments, inc., president and founder of bioautomation, inc. and marketing director for microfluidics at microcosm technologies, inc. during mr. west term at princeton instruments, the company introduced the first low light imaging system for single molecule fluorescence and solexa, at that time a startup, bought one of the first units. mr. west received both bachelor of science and master of science degrees in engineering from mit, and a master of business administration in finance from the wharton school of business at the university of pennsylvania. item 1a. risk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or impact our stock price. our commercial success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our ability to protect our own intellectual property. as we have previously disclosed, affymetrix, inc. filed a complaint against us in july 2004, alleging infringement of six of its patents. on june 30, 2006, the court dismissed a patent affymetrix had sought to withdraw from its suit leaving five patents being asserted against us. on august 16, 2006, the court issued a ruling on the claim construction hearing that it had held on april 20, 2006 as part of this litigation. we believe the court mixed ruling interpreted certain claim terms in our favor, and did not adversely impact our defenses and counterclaims which are still pending. at the request of both parties, trial has been rescheduled to march 5, 2007 from october 16, 2006. a pre-trial conference was held on february 8, 2007 during which the court established a multi-phase trial structure with the first phase of the trial to begin on march 5, 2007, and addressed related issues. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling throughout these proceedings may have an adverse impact on our stock price, and such impact may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. 17 table of contents third parties, including affymetrix, have asserted or may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and maintain profitability. we expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. this would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability. if we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using technologies such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation dna sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. we anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. the markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. for example, prices per data point for genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. if we are unable to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights abroad. 18 table of contents the patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship may also arise. for example, in june 2005, a former employee filed a complaint against us, claiming he is entitled to be named as joint inventor of certain of our u.s. patents and pending u.s. and foreign patent applications, and seeking a judgment that the related patents and applications are unenforceable. any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. there also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. we also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. we have taken security measures to protect our confidential information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential information, and we may not otherwise be able to effectively protect our trade secrets. accordingly, others may gain access to our confidential information, or may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques. if we are unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we currently possess limited facilities capable of manufacturing our principle products and services for both sale to our customers and internal use. if a natural disaster were to significantly damage our facility or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from developing and manufacturing our products and services. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, as part of the decoding step in our array manufacturing process, we record several images of each array to identify what bead is in each location on the array and to validate each bead in the array. this requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it would adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and may prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. 19 table of contents our manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our products. we continue to ramp up our capacity to meet our anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe that we have sufficient plans in place to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan in 2007 and 2008, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facility and launch new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. if we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. the nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. for example, we currently obtain the fiber optic bundles and beadchip slides included in our products from single vendors. if we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could adversely affect our business. we acquired solexa in january 2007 and cyvera corporation in april 2005 and we may in the future acquire technology, products or businesses related to our current or future business. we have limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to complete acquisitions. further, these potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business. for example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a company operations, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. an acquisition may further strain our existing financial and managerial resources, and divert management attention away from our other business concerns. in connection with these acquisitions, we assumed certain liabilities and hired certain employees, which is expected to continue to result in an increase in our research and development expenses and capital expenditures. there may also be unanticipated costs and liabilities associated with an acquisition that could adversely affect our operating results. to finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. additionally, an acquisition may have a substantial negative impact on near-term expected financial results. the success of the solexa merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating solexa businesses with our businesses. our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of solexa. the integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other factors: lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; 20 table of contents complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; integrating personnel from diverse corporate cultures while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management attention to the merger. if we are unable to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the merger, such anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. in addition, we and solexa have operated and will continue to operate independently. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of each company management attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. the combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger as a result of our failure to achieve anticipated revenue growth following the merger. solexa business faces significant risks. these risks include the fact that solexa technology is at the development stage and, although solexa has accepted orders for its genome analyzer and has shipped and installed those systems, solexa has not completed performance specifications for those systems and has not invoiced customers for them. there can be no assurance it will be able to do so. these risks also include those described under the caption risk factors of solexa quarterly report on form 10-q filed with the securities and exchange commission for the quarterly period ended september 30, 2006, and may include additional risks of which we are not currently aware or which we currently do not believe are material. if any of the events or circumstances underlying these risks actually occur, solexa business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed and, as a result, solexa may, among other things, fail to achieve the anticipated revenue growth following the merger. the merger will cause dilution of illumina earnings per share. the merger and the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement are expected to have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share at least through 2007 due to losses of solexa, the additional shares of illumina common stock that were issued in the merger, the transaction and integration-related costs and other factors such as the potential failure to realize any benefit from synergies anticipated in the merger. these factors could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 21 table of contents solexa had a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting as of december 31, 2005. if additional material weaknesses are identified in the future, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our consolidated financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading of our common stock. as of december 31, 2005, solexa did not maintain effective control over the application of gaap related to the financial reporting process. this control deficiency resulted in numerous adjustments being required to bring solexa financial statements into compliance with gaap. additionally, this deficiency could have resulted in material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. accordingly, solexa management determined that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness. because of this material weakness, solexa management concluded that, as of december 31, 2005, it did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on those criteria. should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that there are material weaknesses in our consolidated internal controls over financial reporting (including solexa), the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. we expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly. accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. we have a limited history of commercial sales of systems and consumable products, and our success depends on our ability to develop commercially successful products and on market acceptance of our new and relatively unproven technologies. we may not possess all of the resources, capability and intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize all the products or services that may result from our technologies. sales of our genotyping and gene expression systems only began in 2003, and some of our other technologies are in the early stages of commercialization or are still in development. you should evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting similarly situated companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. we must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before some of our products will be ready for sale, and we currently have fewer resources available for research and development activities than some of our competitors. we may not be able to develop or launch new products in a timely manner, or at all, or they may not meet customer requirements or be of sufficient quality or at a price that enables us to compete effectively in the marketplace. problems frequently encountered in connection with the development or early commercialization of products and services using new and relatively unproven technologies might limit our ability to develop and successfully commercialize these products and services. in addition, we may need to enter into agreements to obtain intellectual property necessary to commercialize some of our products or services, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. 22 table of contents historically, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies have analyzed genetic variation and biological function using a variety of technologies. in order to be successful, our products must meet the commercial requirements of the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries as tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: our ability to demonstrate to potential customers the benefits and cost effectiveness of our products and services relative to others available in the market; the extent and effectiveness of our efforts to market, sell and distribute our products; our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies requiring capital investments; and the extended time lag and sales expenses involved between the time a potential customer is contacted on a possible sale of our products and services and the time the sale is consummated or rejected by the customer. our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. we currently have fewer resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services compared to some of our primary competitors. in order to effectively commercialize our sequencing, genotyping and gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. we may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. in addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. we have only recently achieved annual operating profitability. prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception. as of december 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $104.6 million. our ability to sustain annual profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. sfas no. 123r is also likely to adversely affect our future profitability. we expect to continue incurring significant expenses related to research and development, sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. in addition, we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. even if we maintain profitability, we may not be able to increase profitability on a quarterly basis. we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. these difficulties could impair our profitability. we have experienced, and we may expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. if we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our profitability could suffer. our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. 23 table of contents our effective tax rate may vary significantly. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by various internal and external factors. these factors, include but are not limited to, earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof; changes in tax rates, future levels of research and development spending, and changes in overall levels of pretax earnings. any new interpretative guidance relating to accounting for uncertain tax positions could adversely affect our tax provision. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer, john stuelpnagel, our senior vice president and chief operating officer and john west, our senior vice president and general manager of dna sequencing . the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. the failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. a significant portion of our sales are to international customers. approximately 44% and 38% of our revenue for the years ended december 31, 2006 and january 1, 2006, respectively, was derived from shipments to customers outside the united states. we intend to continue to expand our international presence and export sales to international customers and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. export sales entail a variety of risks, including: currency exchange fluctuations; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. in addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. we are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 24 table of contents our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. both of these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain annual profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. foreign currency exchange risk although most of our revenue is realized in u.s. dollars, some portions of our revenue are realized in foreign currencies. as a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the functional currencies of our subsidiaries are their respective local currencies. accordingly, the accounts of these operations are translated from the local currency to the u.s. dollar using the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date for the balance sheet accounts, and using the average exchange rate during the period for revenue and expense accounts. the effects of translation are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity. 46 table of contents periodically, we hedge significant foreign currency firm sales commitments and accounts receivable with forward contracts. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures and they generally have terms of one year or less. these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are reported in other comprehensive income. realized gains and losses for the effective portion are recognized with the underlying hedge transaction. as of december 31, 2006, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. the notional settlement amount of the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2006 and january 1, 2006 were $0 and $0.1 million, respectively. as of january 1, 2006, we had one outstanding contract with an immaterial fair value, representing an unrealized gain, which was included in other current assets at january 1, 2006. we settled foreign exchange contracts of $0.1 million and $5.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2006 and january 1, 2006, respectively. we did not hold any derivative financial instruments prior to fiscal 2004.risk factors in this annual report, that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels or activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. accordingly, you should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we are not under any duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date we file this annual report on form 10-k or to conform these statements to actual results, unless required by law. you should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission. illumina , array of arrays tm , beadarray tm , beadxpress tm , cspro , dasl , goldengate , infinium , intellihyb , iselect , making sense out of life , oligator , sentrix , solexa , and veracode tm are our trademarks. this report also contains brand names, trademarks or service marks of companies other than illumina, and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective holders. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, www.illumina.com. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. such reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with, or furnishing to, the securities and exchange commission. the sec also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that electronically file with the sec. overview we are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of integrated systems for the large scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive line of products and services that currently serve the sequencing, genotyping and gene expression markets. in the future, we expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. our customers include leading genomic research centers, pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical research organizations and biotechnology companies. our tools provide researchers around the world with the performance, throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility necessary to perform the billions of genetic tests needed to extract valuable medical information from advances in genomics and proteomics. we believe this information will enable researchers to correlate genetic variation and biological function, which will enhance drug discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be detected earlier and permit better choices of drugs for individual patients. in april 2005, we completed the acquisition of cyvera corporation (cyvera). the aggregate consideration for the transaction was $17.5 million, consisting of approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock and payment of approximately $2.3 million of cyvera liabilities at the closing. 2 table of contents on january 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of solexa, inc. (solexa) for approximately 13.1 million shares of our common stock. solexa develops and commercializes genetic analysis technologies used to perform a range of analyses, including whole genome resequencing, gene expression analysis and small rna analysis. we believe our combined company is the only company with genome-scale technology for genotyping, gene expression and sequencing, the three cornerstones of modern genetic analysis. we were incorporated in california in april 1998. we reincorporated in delaware in july 2000. our principal executive offices are located at 9885 towne centre drive, san diego, california 92121. our telephone number is (858) 202-4500. industry background genetic variation and biological function every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each parent. the two copies of each gene may be identical, or they may be different. these differences are referred to as genetic variation. examples of the physical consequences of genetic variation include differences in eye and hair color. genetic variation can also have important medical consequences. genetic variation affects disease susceptibility, including predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and alzheimer disease. in addition, genetic variation may cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment. some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and still others may experience adverse side effects. a common form of genetic variation is a single-nucleotide polymorphism, or snp. a snp is a variation in a single position in a dna sequence. it is estimated that the human genome contains over nine million snps. while in some cases a single snp will be responsible for medically important effects, it is now believed that combinations of snps may contribute to the development of most major diseases. since there are millions of snps, it is important to investigate many representative, well-chosen snps simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable information. another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or under-expression of genes within an organism cells. a very complex network of genes interacts to maintain health in complex organisms. the challenge for scientists is to delineate the associated genes expression patterns and their relationship to disease. until recently, this problem was addressed by investigating effects on a gene-by-gene basis. this is time consuming, and difficulties exist when several pathways cannot be observed or controlled at the same time. with the advent of microarray technology, thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time. snp genotyping snp genotyping is the process of determining which base (a, c, g or t) is present at a particular site in the genome within an individual or other organism. the use of snp genotyping to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual snp or a collection of snps, and to apply that information to clinical trials and diagnostic testing, requires the analysis of millions of snp genotypes and the testing of large populations for each disease. for example, a single large clinical trial could involve genotyping 1,000,000 snps per patient in 1,000 patients, thus requiring 1 billion assays. using previously available technologies, this scale of snp genotyping was both impractical and prohibitively expensive. large-scale snp genotyping can be used in a variety of ways, including studies designed to understand the genetic contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics-based drug development, clinical trial analysis, disease predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. snp genotyping can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the development of plants and animals with desirable commercial characteristics. these markets will require billions of snp genotyping assays annually. 3 table of contents gene expression profiling gene expression profiling is the process of determining which genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is accomplished by measuring mrna, the intermediary messenger between genes (dna) and proteins. variation in gene expression can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease or predisposition to disease. by comparing gene expression patterns between cells from different environments, such as normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a role in these processes can be identified. studies of this type, often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and preferably tens of thousands, of mrnas in large numbers of samples. once a smaller set of genes of interest has been identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example, within a clinical trial. as gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases, gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important diagnostic tool. diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more cost-effective technologies. sequencing dna sequencing is the process of determining the order of bases (a, c, g or t) in a dna sample, which can be further divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing, and tag sequencing. in de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine the sequence of a representative sample from a species never before sequenced. understanding the similarities and differences in dna sequence between many species can help to improve our understanding of the function of the structures found in the dna. in re-sequencing, the sequence of samples from a given species is determined generally comparing each to a standard or reference sequence. this is an extremely comprehensive form of genotyping, in which every single base is characterized for possible mutations. in tag sequencing, short sequences, each representative of a larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted. in these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen provides quantification of an underlying biological process. as an example, in digital gene expression, one tag sequence may exist for each gene, and the number of copies of this tag which are detected in an experiment is a measure of how actively that gene is being expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed. 4 table of contents our technologies beadarray technology we have developed a proprietary array technology that enables the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. our beadarray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. our beadarray technology provides a unique combination of high throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility. we achieve high throughput with a high density of test sites per array and we are able to format arrays either in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates or in various configurations in the format of standard microscope slides. we seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive reagents and valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. our ability to vary the size, shape and format of the well patterns and to create specific bead pools, or sensors, for different applications provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments. we believe that these features have enabled our beadarray technology to become a leading platform for the emerging high-growth market of snp genotyping and expect they will enable us to become a key player in the gene expression market. our proprietary beadarray technology combines microwells etched into a substrate and specially prepared beads that self-assemble into an array. we have deployed our beadarray technology in two different array formats, the array matrix and the beadchip. our first bead-based product was the array matrix which incorporates fiber optic bundles. the fiber optic bundles, which we cut into lengths of less than one inch, are manufactured to our specifications. each bundle is comprised of approximately 50,000 individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into an aluminum plate, which forms an array matrix. beadchips are fabricated in microscope slide-shaped sizes with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. both formats are chemically etched to create tens to hundreds of thousands of wells for each sample site. in a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in a batch. we make different batches of beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. the particular molecules on a bead define that bead function as a sensor. for example, we create a batch of snp sensors by attaching a particular dna sequence, or oligo, to each bead in the batch. we combine batches of coated beads to form a pool specific to the type of array we intend to create. a bead pool one milliliter in volume contains sufficient beads to produce thousands of arrays. to form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the wells, one bead per well. the tens of thousands of beads in the wells comprise our individual arrays. because the beads assemble randomly into the wells, we perform a final procedure called decoding in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the array. we employ several proprietary methods for decoding, a process that requires only a few steps to identify all the beads in the array. one beneficial by-product of the decoding process is a validation of each bead in the array. this quality control test characterizes the performance of each bead and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. we ensure that each bead type on the array is sufficiently represented by including multiple copies of each bead type. multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and accuracy of the resulting data by allowing statistical processing of the results of identical beads. we believe we are the only microarray company to provide this level of quality control in the industry. an experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as dna from a patient, and introducing it to the array. the design features of our array matrix allow it to be simply dipped into a solution containing the sample, whereas our beadchip allows processing of samples on a slide-sized platform. the molecules in the sample bind to their matching molecules on the coated bead. these molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with a fluorescent dye either before or after the binding. the beadarray reader detects the fluorescent dye by shining a laser on the fiber optic bundle or on the beadchip. this allows the detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis of the sample. 5 table of contents sequencing technology our dna sequencing technology, acquired as part of the solexa merger that was completed on january 26, 2007, is based on the use of our sequencing-by-synthesis (sbs) biochemistry. in sbs, single stranded dna is extended from a priming site, one base at a time, using reversible terminator nucleotides. these are dna bases which can be added to a growing second strand, but which initially cannot be further extended. this means that at each cycle of the chemistry, only one base can be added. each base which is added includes a fluorescent label which is specific to the particular base. thus following incorporation, the fluorescence can be imaged, its color determined, and the base itself can be inferred. once this is done, an additional step removes both the fluorescence and the block that had prevented further extension of the second strand. this allows another base to be added, and the cycle can be repeated. we have shown data in which this cycle is repeated up to 50 times, thus determining dna sequences which are up to 50 bases long. this may well increase in the future as we further develop this technology. the reversible terminator bases which we use are novel synthetic molecules which we manufacture. they are not well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so we have also developed proprietary enzymes for this purpose. both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant intellectual property. in our dna sequencing systems, we apply the sbs biochemistry on microscopic islands of dna. these are called dna clusters. each cluster starts as a single dna molecule, typically a few hundred bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow cell. we then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to create copies of each starting molecule. as the copies are made, they are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot diffuse away. after a number of cycles of amplification, each cluster might have 500 to 1,000 copies of the original starting molecule, but still be only about a micron (one-millionth of a meter) in diameter. by making so many copies, the fluorescent signal from each cluster is significantly increased. because the clusters are so small though, tens of millions of clusters can be independently formed inside a single flow cell. this large number of clusters can then be sequenced simultaneously, by alternate cycles of sbs biochemistry and electronic imaging. veracode technology the beadarray technology is most effective in applications which require mid- to high levels of multiplexing from low to high levels of throughput. multiplexing refers to the number of individual pieces of information that are simultaneously extracted from one sample. we believe the molecular diagnostics market will require systems which are extremely high throughput and cost effective in the mid- to low-multiplex range. to address this market, we acquired the veracode technology through our acquisition of cyvera corporation in april 2005. based on digitally encoded microbeads, veracode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to 384-plex in a single well. we began shipping the beadxpress system, which uses the veracode technology, during the first quarter of 2007, along with several assays for the system. we believe that this system enables lower multiplex genotyping, gene expression and protein based assays. in the research market, we expect our customers to utilize our beadarray technology for their higher multiplex projects and then move to our beadxpress system for their lower multiplex projects utilizing the same assays. oligator technology genomic applications require many different short pieces of dna that can be made synthetically, called oligos. we have developed our proprietary oligator technology for the parallel synthesis of many different oligos to meet the requirements of large-scale genomics applications. we believe that our oligator technology is substantially more cost effective and provides significantly higher throughput than available commercial alternatives. our synthesis machines are computer controlled and utilize many robotic processes to minimize the amount of labor used in the manufacturing process. in 2005, we implemented our fourth-generation oligator technology, which is capable of manufacturing over 13,000 different oligos per run. this was an improvement over prior generations of technology where we could only manufacture approximately 3,000 oligos per run. this increase in scale was necessary to enable us to 6 table of contents support the manufacture of oligos under our collaboration with invitrogen as well as to support our increased internal need for oligos, a critical component of our beadarray technology, for product sales and new product development. key advantages of our technology we believe that our technology provides distinct advantages, in a variety of applications, over competing technologies, by creating cost-effective, highly miniaturized arrays with the following characteristics: high throughput. the miniaturization of our beadarray technology provides very high information content per unit area. to increase sample throughput, we have formatted our array matrix in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates, allowing throughput levels of up to nearly 150,000 unique assays per microtiter plate, and we use laboratory robotics to speed process time. similarly, we have patterned our whole-genome expression beadchips to support up to 48,000 gene expression assays for six samples with each beadchip, and our whole-genome genotyping beadchips to support over 1,000,000 genotypes with each beadchip. our infinium and goldengate assays are supported by full automation and lims to address high throughput laboratories. our genome analyzer can analyze the dna sequences of tens of millions of clusters at one time. cost effectiveness. our array products substantially reduce the cost of our customers experiments as a result of our proprietary manufacturing process and our ability to capitalize on cost reductions generated by advances in fiber optics, plasma etching processes, digital imaging and bead chemistry. in addition, our products require smaller reagent volumes than other array technologies, thereby reducing reagent costs for our customers. our oligator technology further reduces reagent costs, as well as reducing our cost of coating beads used in our beadarray and veracode technologies. we believe the genome analyzer allows dna sequencing at 1/100th of the cost of conventional capillary instruments. flexibility. we are able to offer flexible solutions to our customers based on our ability to attach different kinds of molecules, including dna, rna, proteins and other chemicals, to our beads. in addition, we can have beadchips manufactured in multiple shapes and sizes with wells organized in various arrangements to optimize them for different markets and market segments. in combination, the use of beads and etched wells provides the flexibility and scalability for our beadarray technology to be tailored to perform many applications in many different market segments, from drug discovery to diagnostics. our oligator technology allows us to manufacture a wide diversity of lengths and quantities of oligos. dna sequences determined with our genome analyzer can be used to identify larger dna or rna molecules from which the sequences have been derived, and can also be used for a series of applications based on tag sequencing, including digital gene expression analysis and microrna discovery and quantification. quality and reproducibility. the quality of our products is dependent upon each element in the system the array, the assay used to perform the experiment and the instrumentation and software used to capture the results. each array is manufactured with a high density of beads, which enables us to have multiple copies of each individual bead type. we measure the copies simultaneously and combine them into one data point. this allows us to make a comparison of each bead against its own population of identical beads, which permits the statistical calculation of a more reliable and accurate value for each data point. finally, the manufacture of the array includes a proprietary decoding step that also functions as a quality control test of every bead on every array, improving the overall quality of the data. when we develop the assays used with our products, we focus on performance, cost and ease of use. by developing assays that are easy to use, we can reduce the potential for the introduction of error into the experiment. we believe that this enables researchers to obtain high quality and reproducible data from their experiments. additionally, we manufacture substantially all of the reagents used in our assays, allowing us to control the quality of the product delivered to the customer. 7 table of contents our strategy our goal is to make our beadarray, beadxpress and genome analyzer platforms the industry standard for products and services addressing the genetic analysis markets. we plan to achieve this by: focusing on emerging high-growth markets; seek out new and complimentary technologies; expanding our technologies into multiple product lines, applications and market segments; and strengthening our technological leadership. products and services the first implementation of our beadarray technology, the array matrix, is a disposable matrix with 96 fiber optic bundles arranged in a pattern that matches the standard 96-well microtiter plate. each fiber optic bundle performs more than 1,500 unique assays. the beadchip, introduced in 2003, is fabricated in multiple configurations to support multiple applications and scanning technologies. we have provided genotyping services using our proprietary beadarray technology since 2001. in addition, we have developed our first genotyping and gene expression products based on this technology. these products include disposable array matrices and beadchips, goldengate and infinium reagent kits for snp genotyping, beadarray reader scanning instruments and an evolving portfolio of custom and standard gene expression products. snp genotyping in 2001, we introduced the first commercial application of our beadarray technology by launching our snp genotyping services product line. since this launch, we have had peak days in which we operated at 185 million genotypes per day. to our knowledge, no other genotyping platform can achieve comparable levels of throughput while delivering such high accuracy and low cost. we designed our first consumable beadarray product, the array matrix, for snp genotyping. the array matrix uses a universal format that allows it to analyze any set of snps. we have also developed reagent kits based on goldengate assay protocols and the beadarray reader, a laser scanner, which is used to read our array products. the beadstation, a flexible and scalable system for performing genotyping, was initially commercialized in late 2003. the system currently includes our beadarray reader and genotyping and/or gene expression analysis software. depending on throughput and automation requirements, our customers can select the system configuration to best meet their needs. for production-scale throughput, multiple beadstations combined with lims, standard operating procedures, and analytical software and fluid handling robotics can be configured to produce millions of genotypes per day. scientists and researchers can perform genotyping, gene expression, methylation, and copy number variation (cnv) analysis with these products. in 2006, we introduced several new snp genotyping products, including the humanhap family of beadchips, for genome-wide disease association studies. this family of beadchips enables researchers to interrogate more than 1,000,000 snp markers for associated studies. we believe our beadchips provide the most comprehensive genomic coverage and highest data quality of any whole-genome genotyping product currently available. through an application called copy number polymorphisms, the humanhap family of beadchips also provides high-resolution information on amplifications, deletions and loss of heterozygosity throughout the genome, abnormalities common in cancers and congenital diseases. in addition, we announced additional standard panels in the first quarter of 2006, including mouse linkage and cancer panels. 8 table of contents also, in 2006, we began shipment of the iselect infinium genotyping product line used for focused content applications. with this product, customers can create a custom array of up to 60,000 snp markers per sample with 12 samples per chip. during the fourth quarter of 2006, we introduced and began shipping the humanhap300-duo and the humanhap300-duo+ genotyping beadchips, as well as the ratref-12 expression beadchip. the humanhap300-duo allows researchers to analyze two samples simultaneously, with over 634,000 total tag snps on a single beadchip. the humanhap300-duo+ allows for the addition of 60,000 custom snp loci to the base product, enabling researchers to enrich that product with snps of interest in any genomic region. the ratref-12 expression beadchip enables analysis of 12 samples in parallel on a single beadchip. content for this beadchip is derived from the ncbi refseq database (release 16), with over 22,000 rat transcripts represented. by allowing for multiple samples on the same beadchip, we believe we have minimized chip to chip variability and enhanced data quality. in 2007, we announced the following key new product developments associated with snp genotyping: human 1m dna analysis beadchip. this product combines an unprecedented level of content for both whole-genome and cnv analysis, along with additional unique, high-value genomic regions of interest all on a single microarray chip. shipments of the human 1m dna analysis beadchip began during the second quarter of 2007. humancnv370-duo beadchip. the humancnv370-duo enables researchers to analyze two samples simultaneously and access novel content for detecting disease-relevant cnv regions. shipments of the humancnv370-duo beadchip began during the second quarter of 2007. humanhap550-duo beadchip. the humanhap550-duo provides the same content as our humanhap550 beadchip in a dual-format, resulting in significantly greater throughput and lower costs per sample. the humanhap550-duo contains more than 550,000 snps, selected based on a novel tag snp approach. shipments of the humanhap550-duo beadchip began during the third quarter of 2007. during 2008, we introduced two new products for dna analysis: the infinium high-density (hd) human1m-duo (two samples per chip) and the human610-quad (four samples per chip), featuring up to 2.3 million snps per beadchip. the new infinium hd product line doubles sample throughput and reduces dna input requirements by as much as 70 percent. the infinium hd products also offer, what we believe is, enhanced signal discrimination and a new snp calling algorithm. first customer shipments of the human610-quad and human1m-duo beadchips are expected in the first and second quarter of 2008, respectively. gene expression profiling with the addition of application specific accessory kits, our production-scale beadstations are capable of performing a growing number of applications, including gene expression profiling. in 2003, we introduced our focused set gene expression products on both the array matrix and beadchip platforms. our system includes a beadarray reader for imaging array matrices and beadchips, a hybridization chamber and software for data extraction. in 2005, we began shipment of the human-6 and humanref-8 expression beadchip products. both products allow large-scale expression profiling of multiple samples on a single chip and are imaged using our beadarray reader. the human-6 beadchip is designed to analyze six discrete whole-human-genome samples on one chip, interrogating in each sample approximately 48,000 transcripts from the estimated 30,000 genes in the human genome. the humanref-8 beadchip product analyzes eight samples in parallel against 24,000 transcripts from the roughly 22,000 genes represented in the consensus refseq database, a well-characterized whole-genome subset used broadly in genetic analysis. we believe these gene expression beadchips have dramatically reduced the cost of whole-genome 9 table of contents expression analysis, allowing researchers to expand the scale and reproducibility of large-scale biological experimentation. in 2006, we began shipment of the ratref-12, which analyzes twelve samples in parallel against 22,226 transcripts from the roughly 21,910 genes represented in the refseq database, release 16. in 2007, we launched the next versions of the human and mouse arrays, taking advantage of the updated content of the refseq and the unigene databases could provide. we also expanded our product breadth and released our first microrna arrays for both human and mouse. to keep up with the ever changing needs of the market, we have invested in the future with new, innovative technologies, acquired from the solexa acquisition, to provide our customers with what we believe is the broadest portfolio of gene expression technologies available. we believe digital gene expression (dge) is a revolutionary approach to expression analysis. driven by sequencing technology, dge generates genome-wide expression profiles through sequencing, not hybridization. we believe this unique method provides 100 times the amount of data of other methods. it can provide more than one billion bases of data in a single run, at 1% of the cost of traditional sanger sequencing. using dge, researchers can: quickly discover novel rnas in any species; accurately quantify low-abundance rna; confidently analyze small and non-coding rna, as well as transcriptomes; and independently validate microarray data. instrumentation the beadarray reader, an instrument we developed, is a key component of our beadstation. this scanning equipment uses a laser to read the results of experiments that are captured on our arrays and was designed to be used in all areas of genetic analysis that use our array matrices and beadchips. in the second quarter of 2006, we began shipment of the autoloader, which automates beadchip loading and scanning and increases lab throughput. the autoloader is designed to support up to two beadarray readers simultaneously for unattended operation. during the first quarter of 2007, we began shipment of the genome analyzer. this product can generate more than one billion bases of data in a single run using a massively parallel sequencing approach. the system leverages solexa sequencing-by-synthesis technology and novel reversible terminator chemistry, optimized to achieve what we believe are unprecedented levels of cost effectiveness and throughput. also, during the first quarter of 2007, we began shipment of the beadxpress system. this system is a high-throughput, dual-color laser detection system developed using the veracode digital microbead technology. it enables scanning of a broad range of multiplexed assays and can take researchers from biomarker validation and focused studies to the development of molecular diagnostics. high-throughput oligo synthesis we have put in place a state-of-the-art oligo manufacturing facility. this facility serves both the commercial needs under our collaboration with invitrogen and our internal needs. in addition to their use to coat beads, these oligos are components of the reagent kits for our beadarray products and are used for assay development. we manufacture oligos in a wide range of lengths and in several scales, with the ability to add many types of modifications. we offer a range of quality control options and have implemented a laboratory information management system (referred to as lims) to control much of the manufacturing process. in 2005, we stopped selling oligos directly into the market and began shipping oligos under our collaboration with invitrogen. 10 table of contents our collaborative partners decode genetics in may 2006, we executed a joint development and licensing agreement (the development agreement) with decode genetics, ehf. (decode). pursuant to the development agreement, the parties agreed to collaborate exclusively to develop, validate and commercialize specific diagnostic tests for variants in genes involved in three disease-related pathways: the gene-encoding leukotriene a4 hydrolase, linked to heart attack; the gene-encoding transcription factor 7-like 2 (tcf7l2), linked to type 2 diabetes; and the gene-encoding bard1, linked to breast cancer. with decode, we are developing diagnostic tests based on these variants for use on our beadxpress system. under the agreement, we are responsible for the manufacturing, marketing and selling of the diagnostic products. the companies share the development costs of these products and split the profits from sales of the diagnostics tests. the development agreement may be terminated as to a particular product under development if one party decides to discontinue funding the development of that product, and may be terminated in whole by either party if the other party commits an uncured material breach, files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent. under a separate supply agreement, we installed instrumentation at decode that enables decode to perform whole genome association studies on up to 100,000 samples using our humanhap300 beadchips and associated reagents. intellectual property we have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of february 1, 2008, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to, 119 issued u.s. patents and 153 pending u.s. patent applications, including five allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent application. this portfolio includes patents acquired as part of our acquisition of solexa on january 26, 2007. our issued patents, which are directed at various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments and chemical detection technologies, expire between 2010 and 2025. we are seeking to extend the patents directed at the full range of our technologies. we have received or filed counterparts for many of these patents and applications in one or more foreign countries. we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and trademark protection, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products. we are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties, which grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits and scanning equipment. we have exclusive licenses from tufts university to patents that are directed at our use of beadarray technology. these patents were filed by dr. david walt, a member of our board of directors, the chairman of our scientific advisory board and one of our founders. our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2010 and 2020. we also have additional nonexclusive licenses from various third parties for other components of our products. in most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation and require that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect. research and development we have made substantial investments in research and development since our inception. we have assembled a team of skilled engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology, chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems, software, manufacturing and other related areas required to complete the development of our products. our research and development efforts have focused primarily on the 11 table of contents tasks required to optimize our beadarray, oligator, veracode and sequencing technologies and to support commercialization of the products and services derived from these technologies. as of december 30, 2007, we had a total of 277 employees engaged in research and development activities. our research and development expenses for 2007, 2006, and 2005 (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of $10.0 million, $3.9 million, and $0.1 million, respectively) were $73.9 million, $33.4 million, and $27.8 million, respectively. compared to 2007, we expect research and development expense to increase during 2008 as we continue to expand our research and product development efforts. marketing and distribution our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. these experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and agricultural research. our potential customers include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and consumer products companies, as well as academic or private research centers. the genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its size and speed of development will be ultimately driven by, among other items: the ability of the research community to extract medically valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment; the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation required to study genetic variation and biological function; and the availability of government and private industry funding to perform the research required to extract medically relevant information from genomic analysis. we market and distribute our products directly to customers in north america, major european markets, japan singapore, and china. in each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service and application support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their respective customer bases. in smaller markets in the pacific rim countries and europe, we sell our products and provide services to customers through distributors that specialize in life science products. we expect to significantly increase our sales and distribution resources during 2008 and beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the number of customers that can use our products. manufacturing we manufacture our array and sequencing platforms, reagent kits, scanning equipment and oligos. our manufacturing capacity for beadchips has increased 50% over the level as of january 1, 2007, despite the substantial increase in complexity associated with manufacturing these products. we intend to continue to increase capacity both domestically and internationally as needed to manufacture our products in sufficient quantity to meet our business plan for 2008. we expect to continue expanding our manufacturing capacity in singapore. we have signed a lease agreement and plan to commence manufacturing operations in the latter half of 2008. we are focused on continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of our array matrices and beadchips and are exploring ways to continue increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process. in addition, we have implemented information management systems for many of our manufacturing and services operations to manage all aspects of material and sample use. we adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances. 12 table of contents competition although we expect that our products and services will provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect to encounter intense competition from other companies that offer products and services for the snp genotyping, gene expression and sequencing markets. these include companies such as affymetrix, agilent, applera corporation, applied biosystems, beckman coulter, complete genomics, fluidigm, ge corp., luminex, pacific biosciences, perlegen sciences, roche diagnostics, sequenom and third wave technologies. some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we do. in addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we need to address and in some cases a larger installed base of systems. each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. in order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over the competing products. rapid technological development may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete. products offered by us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more effective products based on similar or other technologies. although we believe that our technology and products will offer advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. segment and geographic information we operate in one business segment for the development, manufacture and commercialization of tools for genetic analysis. our operations are treated as one segment as we only report operating results on an aggregate basis to our chief operating decision maker, our chief executive officer. during 2007, $159.1 million, or 43%, of our total revenue came from shipments to customers outside the united states, compared to $81.5 million, or 44%, and $28.0 million, or 38%, in 2006 and 2005, respectively. sales to territories outside of the united states are generally denominated in u.s. dollars. we expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue. we have sales support resources in western europe and direct sales offices in japan, singapore and china. in addition, we have distributor relationships in various countries in the pacific rim region and europe. see note 13 of notes to consolidated financial statements for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations. seasonality historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as academic customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the government fiscal year. environmental matters we are dedicated to the protection of our employees and the environment. our operations require the use of hazardous materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. we believe we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur. in addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance. during 2007, we entered into a lease agreement with biomed realty trust, inc. to expand into a new office building in san diego, california. this new building will be leed certified. 13 table of contents employees as of december 30, 2007, we had a total of 1,041 employees, 195 of whom hold ph.d. degrees. ninety-seven of our employees with ph.d. degrees are engaged in full-time research and development activities. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our employee relations to be positive. executive officers our executive officers as of february 1, 2008, are as follows: name age position jay t. flatley 55 president, chief executive officer and director christian o. henry 39 senior vice president, chief financial officer, acting general manager of sequencing christian g. cabou 59 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary tristan b. orpin 41 senior vice president, commercial operations john r. stuelpnagel, dvm 50 co-founder, senior vice president and general manager, microarrays, chief operating officer and director jay flatley is president and chief executive officer of illumina. prior to his appointment in 1999, mr. flatley was the president and chief executive officer of molecular dynamics, later acquired by amersham pharmacia biotech in 1998 and now a part of ge healthcare. mr. flatley, who was a founder and member of the board of directors for molecular dynamics, lead the company to its initial public offering (ipo) in 1993, in addition to helping the company develop and launch over 15 major instrumentation systems, including the world first capillary-based dna sequencer. prior to joining molecular dynamics, mr. flatley was vice president of engineering and strategic planning for plexus computers, a manufacturer of high-performance unix super-microcomputers. before his career at plexus, mr. flatley was executive vice president for manning technologies and held various manufacturing positions while working for the autolab division of spectra physics. mr. flatley received a bachelor of arts degree in economics from claremont mckenna college (claremont, ca) and a bachelor of science and master of science (summa cum laude) in industrial engineering from stanford university (stanford, ca). currently, he serves as a member of the board of directors of both illumina and genvault corporation. christian henry is senior vice president, chief financial officer and acting general manager of sequencing of illumina. mr. henry joined illumina in june 2005 and is responsible for worldwide financial operations, controllership functions, facilities management and oversight of illumina dna sequencing business. mr. henry served previously as the chief financial officer for tickets.com, a publicly traded, online ticket provider that was recently acquired by major league baseball advanced media, lp. prior to that, mr. henry was vice president, finance and corporate controller of affymetrix, inc., a publicly traded life sciences company, where he oversaw accounting, planning, sec and management reporting, and treasury and risk management. he previously held a similar position at nektar therapeutics (formerly inhale therapeutic systems, inc.). mr. henry received a bachelor of administration degree in biochemistry and cell biology from the university of california, san diego, and a master of business administration degree from the university of california, irvine. he is a certified public accountant. christian cabou is senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of illumina. mr. cabou joined illumina in may 2006 and has worldwide responsibility for all legal and intellectual property matters. mr. cabou is also illumina code of ethics compliance officer. before joining illumina, mr. cabou spent five years as general counsel for ge global research and, before that, was senior counsel of global intellectual property for ge medical systems. prior to his position at ge, mr. cabou spent seven years with the law firm foley lardner where he was a partner. he had twenty years of experience in engineering design and management prior to his career in law and intellectual property. 14 table of contents mr. cabou received a j.d. from northwestern university school of law (chicago, il.) in addition to a master of engineering management degree from northwestern university. mr. cabou was awarded a msee (equivalent) degree from the conservatoire national des arts et m tiers (paris, france) and a bachelor of science (equivalent) degree from the lyc e technique d etat (armenti res, france). tristan orpin is senior vice president, commercial operations of illumina. he joined illumina in december of 2002 in the role of vice president of worldwide sales, and in january of 2007 was promoted to the position of senior vice president of commercial operations. before joining illumina, mr. orpin was director of sales and marketing for sequenom from september 1999 to august 2001. later mr. orpin was elected vice president of sales and marketing and held this position from august 2001 to november 2002. prior to 2001, mr. orpin served in several senior sales and marketing positions at bio-rad laboratories. mr. orpin received a bachelor of science in genetics and biochemistry with first class honors from the university of melbourne (melbourne, australia). john stuelpnagel, d.v.m ., one of illumina co-founders, will serve as general manager of microarrays and chief operating officer until april 1, 2008. subsequent to that date, dr. stuelpnagel will have a continuing role with illumina working on key projects as an illumina fellow. additionally, as of april 1, 2008, he will step down from illumina board of directors. he has served as the company chief operating officer since january 2005 and a director since april 1998. from april 1998 to october 1999, he served as acting president and chief executive officer and from april 1998 to april 2000 as acting chief financial officer. between october 1999 and january 2005, dr. stuelpnagel was vice president of business development and later as senior vice president of operations. while founding illumina, dr. stuelpnagel was an associate with cw group, a venture capital firm. dr. stuelpnagel received both a bachelor of science degree in biochemistry and a doctorate degree in veterinary medicine from the university of california (davis, ca), and went on to receive a master of business administration degree from the university of california, los angeles. item 1a. risk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. we expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. this would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability. if we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using technologies such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation dna sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. we anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. the markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. for example, prices per data point for genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. for example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, applied biosystems group, a business segment of applera corporation, launched the solid tm system , its next generation sequencing technology. if we are unable 15 table of contents to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. our manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our products. we continue to ramp up our capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan in 2008 and 2009, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. these difficulties could impair our profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. if we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our profitability could suffer. our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. the failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. 16 table of contents if we are unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and hayward, california and little chesterford, united kingdom. we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing operations into singapore, a country in which we have no past manufacturing experience. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes or floods. if a natural disaster were to significantly damage one of our facilities or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from developing and manufacturing our products and services. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, as part of the decoding step in our array manufacturing process, we record several images of each array to identify what bead is in each location on the array and to validate each bead in the array. this requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and would prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. we currently have fewer resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services compared to some of our primary competitors. in order to effectively commercialize our sequencing, genotyping and gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. we may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. in addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. our investment securities consist of u.s. dollar-based short maturity mutual funds, commercial paper, corporate bonds, treasury notes, auction rate securities and municipal bonds. as of december 30, 2007, our short-term investments included $14.7 million of high-grade (aaa rated) auction rate securities issued primarily by municipalities and universities. the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of auction rate securities. in february 2008, we were informed that there was insufficient demand at auction for four of our high-grade auction rate securities, representing approximately $10.7 million. as a result, these affected securities are currently not liquid, and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the issuer or to maturity. we may experience a similar situation with our remaining auction rate securities. in the event we need to access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal, until a future auction on these investments is successful, the securities are redeemed by the issuer or they mature. at this time, management has not obtained sufficient evidence to conclude that these investments are impaired or that they will not be settled in the short term, although the market for these investments is presently uncertain. if the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. 17 table of contents we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could adversely affect our business, specifically the effective launch and customer acceptance of new technology platforms. we acquired solexa in january 2007 and cyvera in april 2005 and we may in the future acquire technology, products or businesses related to our current or future business. we have limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to complete acquisitions. further, these potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business. for example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a company operations, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. an acquisition may further strain our existing financial and managerial resources, and divert management attention away from our other business concerns. in connection with these acquisitions, we assumed certain liabilities and hired certain employees, which is expected to continue to result in an increase in our research and development expenses and capital expenditures. there may also be unanticipated costs and liabilities associated with an acquisition that could adversely affect our operating results. to finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. additionally, an acquisition may have a substantial negative impact on near-term expected financial results. the success of the solexa acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating solexa businesses with our businesses. our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon the continued successful integration of the operations of solexa. the integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. in addition, solexa continues to operate at separate sites. geographic integration in whole or in part could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of each company management attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. the combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition as a result of our failure to achieve anticipated revenue growth following the acquisition. for various reasons, including significant competition, low market acceptance or market growth, and lack of technology advantage, revenue recognized from the solexa acquisition may not grow as anticipated and if so, we may not realize the expected value from this transaction. if we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. the nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. for example, we currently use multiple components in our products that are single-sourced. if we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. changes in our effective income tax rate could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in 18 table of contents determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses including share-based compensation, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, and the result of examinations by various tax authorities. any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights abroad. the patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship may also arise. any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. there also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. we also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. we have taken security measures to protect our confidential information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential information, and we may not otherwise be able to effectively protect our trade secrets. accordingly, others may gain access to our confidential information, or may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques. litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or impact our stock price. our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our ability to protect our own intellectual property. third parties have asserted or may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we 19 table of contents enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have a material adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and maintain profitability. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. we may not be able to make payments on our indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our operation and profitability. in february 2007, we issued $400 million of 0.625% convertible senior notes due february 2014. the notes bear interest semi-annually, mature on february 15, 2014 and obligate us to repurchase the notes at the option of the holders if a designated event (as defined in the indenture for the notes), such as certain merger transactions involving us, occurs. in addition, upon conversion of the notes, we must pay in cash the principal portion of the notes being converted. our ability to make payments on the notes will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash and may also depend on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. we may need to use our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to fund our research and development programs, strategic initiatives and working capital requirements. our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service the notes and fund our operating requirements will depend on our continued ability to commercialize new products and expand our manufacturing capabilities. our debt service obligations increase our vulnerabilities to competitive pressures, because our competitors may be less leveraged than we are. if we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operating requirements, we may be forced to reduce our development programs or seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all, or may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. if we incur new indebtedness, the risks relating to our business and our ability to service our indebtedness will intensify. we expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars. accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. any significant 20 table of contents delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. we have only recently achieved annual operating profitability. prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception, and in 2007 we reported a net loss of $278.4 million, reflecting significant charges associated with our acquisition of solexa in january 2007 and the settlement of our litigation with affymetrix. as of december 30, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $383.0 million. our ability to regain and sustain annual profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. non-cash stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to our acquisition of solexa are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. we expect to continue incurring significant expenses related to research and development, sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. in addition, we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. even if we regain profitability, we may not be able to increase profitability on a quarterly basis. a significant portion of our sales are to international customers. approximately 43%, 44% and 38% of our revenue for the years ended december 30, 2007, december 31, 2006 and january 1, 2006, respectively, was derived from shipments to customers outside the united states. we intend to continue to expand our international presence and export sales to international customers and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. export sales entail a variety of risks, including: currency exchange fluctuations; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. in addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. we are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. in 21 table of contents addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain annual profitability. the accounting method for our convertible debt securities may be subject to change. a convertible debt security providing for share and/or cash settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under emerging issues task force (eitf) issue no. 00-19, accounting for derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock , including our outstanding convertible debt securities, is currently classified in its entirety as debt under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. no portion of the carrying value of such a security related to the conversion option indexed to the issuer stock is classified as equity. in addition, interest expense is recognized at the stated coupon rate. the coupon rate of interest for convertible debt securities, including our convertible debt securities, is typically lower than an issuer would be required to pay for nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. the eitf recently considered whether the accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities, which are convertible debt securities that require or permit settlement in cash either in whole or in part upon conversion should be changed, but was unable to reach a consensus and discontinued deliberations on this issue. subsequently, in july 2007, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) voted unanimously to reconsider the current accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities, which includes our convertible debt securities. in august 2007, the fasb exposed for public comment a proposed fasb staff position (fsp) that would change the method of accounting for such securities and would require the proposed method to be retrospectively applied. the fasb began its redeliberations of the guidance in that proposed fsp in january 2008. the fsp, if issued as proposed, would likely become effective for companies like us in the first quarter of 2009. under this proposed method of accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible debt securities would be bifurcated and accounted for separately in a manner that would result in recognizing interest on these securities at effective rates more comparable to what we would have incurred had we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. the equity component of our convertible debt securities would be included in the paid-in-capital section of stockholders equity on our balance sheet and, accordingly, the initial carrying values of these debt securities would be reduced. our net income for financial reporting purposes would be reduced by recognizing the accretion of the reduced carrying values of our convertible debt securities to their face amounts as additional non-cash interest expense. therefore, if the proposed method of accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities is adopted by the fasb as described above, it would have an adverse impact on our past and future reported financial results. as the final guidance has not been issued, we cannot predict its ultimate outcome. we also cannot predict any other changes in gaap that may be made affecting accounting for convertible debt securities, some of which could have an adverse impact on our past or future reported financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. market price sensitive instruments in order to reduce the potential equity dilution, we entered into a convertible note hedge contract entitling us to purchase a maximum of 11,451,480 shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment) at an initial strike price of $43.66 per share (subject to adjustment). upon conversion of our convertible senior notes, this hedge contract is expected to reduce the equity dilution if the daily volume-weighted average price per share of our commons stock exceeds the strike price of the hedge. we also entered into warrant transactions with the counterparties of the convertible note hedge transactions entitling them to acquire a maximum of 18,322,320 shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment) at an initial strike price of $62.87 per share (subject to adjustment). the warrant transactions could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock during the measurement period at maturity of the warrants exceeds the strike price of the warrants. we did not hold any material derivative financial instruments for the year ended december 31, 2006. foreign currency exchange risk although most of our revenue is realized in u.s. dollars, some portions of our revenue are realized in foreign currencies. as a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the functional currencies of our subsidiaries are their respective local currencies. accordingly, the accounts of these operations are translated from the local currency to the u.s. dollar using the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date for the balance sheet accounts, and using the average exchange rate during the period for revenue and expense accounts. the effects of translation are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders equity.risk factors in this annual report, that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. accordingly, you should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we are not under any duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date we file this annual report on form 10-k or to conform these statements to actual results, unless required by law. you should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission. illumina , array of arrays tm , beadarray tm , beadxpress , cspro , dasl , goldengate , genome studio tm , infinium , intellihyb , iselect , making sense out of life , oligator , sentrix , solexa , and veracode are our trademarks. this report also contains brand names, trademarks or service marks of companies other than illumina, and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective holders. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, www.illumina.com. the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. such reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with, or furnishing to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that electronically file with the sec. copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. overview we are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of integrated systems for the large scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we were incorporated in california in april 1998 and reincorporated in delaware in july 2000. our principal executive offices are located at 9885 towne centre drive, san diego, california 92121. our telephone number is (858) 202-4500. using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive line of products and services that currently serve the sequencing, genotyping and gene expression markets. in the future, we expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. our customers include leading genomic research centers, pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical research organizations and biotechnology companies. our tools provide researchers around the world with the performance, throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility necessary to perform the billions of genetic tests needed to extract valuable medical information from advances in genomics and proteomics. we believe this information will enable researchers to correlate genetic variation and biological function, which will enhance drug discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be detected earlier and permit better choices of drugs for individual patients. on january 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of solexa, inc. (solexa) for 26.2 million shares of our common stock. as a result of that acquisition, we develop and commercialize sequencing technologies used to 2 table of contents perform a range of analyses, including whole genome re-sequencing, gene expression analysis and small rna analysis. we believe we are the only company with genome-scale technology for sequencing, genotyping and gene expression, the three cornerstones of modern genetic analysis. during the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating structure into two newly created business segments, life sciences and diagnostics. during 2008, the diagnostics business unit had limited business activity and, accordingly, operating results were reported on an aggregate basis as one operating segment. in the future, at each reporting period end, we will reassess our reportable operating segments, particularly as we enter the market for molecular diagnostics. on august 1, 2008, we completed the acquisition of avantome, inc. (avantome). as consideration for the acquisition, we paid $25.8 million in cash and may pay up to an additional $35.0 million in contingent cash consideration based on the achievement of certain milestones. avantome is a development stage company working on developing low-cost, long read sequencing technology. we expect this technology, if and when available as a product, to have applicability to both the research and diagnostic markets. our strategy our goal is to make our genome analyzer, beadarray and beadxpress platforms the industry standards for products and services addressing the genetic analysis markets. we plan to achieve this by: focusing on emerging high-growth markets; seeking new and complementary technologies through strategic acquisitions and other investments; expanding our technologies into multiple product lines, applications and market segments; and strengthening our technological leadership. our markets our current technologies serve three primary markets: next-generation sequencing, mid-to-high-complexity microarrays for genotyping and gene expression, and the applied markets, the majority of which are comprised of agricultural research. next-generation sequencing is the most rapidly growing of these three markets. it is fueled by private and public funding, new global initiatives to broadly characterize genetic variation, and the migration of legacy genetic applications to sequencing based technologies. we believe our dna sequencing systems, coupled with complementary technologies from strategic investments, including the acquisition of avantome and our collaborative alliance with oxford nanopore technologies will enable us to address numerous market segments with innovative solutions. in 2009, we expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. the molecular diagnostic market is currently estimated at nearly $3 billion with the potential to grow to over $5 billion by 2012. this market assessment covers regulated assays and reagents, and does not factor in laboratory-developed tests, which account for a significant portion of the total market. the primary growth drivers in the molecular diagnostics market are the continued discovery of genetic markers with proven clinical utility, the increasing adoption of genetic based diagnostic tests, and the expansion of reimbursement programs to include a greater number of approved diagnostic tests. we believe our veracode technology platform is ideally suited to provide a cost-effective, high-throughput, mid- to low-multiplex solution to the molecular diagnostic market. we are planning to submit the platform for review by the food and drug administration in 2009. industry background genetic variation and biological function every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each parent. the two copies of each gene may be identical, or they may be different. these differences are referred to as genetic variation. examples of the physical consequences of genetic variation include differences in eye and hair color. genetic variation can also have important medical consequences. genetic variation affects disease susceptibility, including predisposition 3 table of contents to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and alzheimer disease. in addition, genetic variation may cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment. some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and still others may experience adverse side effects. a common form of genetic variation is a single-nucleotide polymorphism, or snp. a snp is a variation in a single position in a dna sequence. it is estimated that the human genome contains over ten million snps. while in some cases a single snp will be responsible for medically important effects, it is now believed that combinations of snps may contribute to the development of most common diseases. since there are millions of snps, it is important to investigate many representative, well-chosen snps simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable information. another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or under-expression of genes within an organism cells. a very complex network of genes interacts to maintain health in complex organisms. the challenge for scientists is to delineate the associated genes expression patterns and their relationship to disease. until recently, this problem was addressed by investigating effects on a gene-by-gene basis. this is time consuming and difficulties exist when several pathways cannot be observed or controlled at the same time. with the advent of microarray technology, thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time. there are multiple methods of studying genetic variation and biological function, including sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression profiling, each of which is uniquely addressed in our breadth of products and services. our broad portfolio of current products and services supports a range of applications, from highest multiplexing (for whole-genome discovery and profiling) to mid-and low-multiplexing options (for high-throughput targeted screening). sequencing dna sequencing is the process of determining the order of bases (a, c, g or t) in a dna sample, which can be further divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing and tag sequencing. in de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine the sequence of a representative sample from a species never before sequenced. understanding the similarities and differences in dna sequence between many species can help our understanding of the function of the protein structures encoded in the dna. in re-sequencing, the sequence of samples from a given species is determined and compared to a standard or reference sequence to identify changes that reflect genetic variation. re-sequencing studies can be performed on a genome-wide basis, which is referred to as whole-genome re-sequencing, or on targeted areas of the genome (for example, regions identified by genome-wide association study), which is known as targeted re-sequencing. this is an extremely comprehensive form of genetic analysis, in which every base is characterized for possible mutations. we believe that these underlying discoveries will likely feed the development of new array products for broader testing and biomarker validation. in tag sequencing, short sequences, often representative of a larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted. in these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen provides quantification of an underlying biological process. as an example, in digital gene expression, one or more tag sequences may be analyzed for each expressed gene, and the number of copies of these tags which are detected in an experiment is a measure of how actively that gene is being expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed. similarly, a tag sequencing approach known as chip sequencing is used to determine the locations and extent of protein and dna interactions throughout the genome. snp genotyping snp genotyping is the process of determining which base (a, c, g or t) is present at a particular site in the genome within any organism. the most common use of snp genotyping is for genome-wide association studies (gwas) to look for an association between dna sequence variants and a specific phenotype of interest. this is commonly done by studying the dna of individuals that are affected by a common disease or that exhibit a specific trait against the dna of control individuals who do not have this disease or trait. the use of snp genotyping to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual snp or a collection of 4 table of contents snps requires the analysis of millions of snp genotypes and the testing of large populations for each disease. for example, a single large study could involve genotyping more than 1,000,000 snps per patient in more than 1,000 patients, thus requiring 1 billion assays. using previously available technologies, this scale of snp genotyping was both impractical and prohibitively expensive. large-scale snp genotyping can be used in a variety of ways, including studies designed to understand the genetic contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics based drug development, clinical trial analysis (responders and non-responders, and adverse event profiles), disease predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. snp genotyping can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the development of plants and animals with commercially desirable characteristics. these markets will require billions of snp genotyping assays annually. gene expression profiling gene expression profiling is the process of determining which genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is accomplished by measuring mrna, the intermediary messenger between genes (dna) and proteins. variation in gene expression can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease or predisposition to disease. by comparing gene expression patterns between cells from different environments, such as normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a role in these processes can be identified. studies of this type, often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and preferably tens of thousands, of mrnas in large numbers of samples. once a smaller set of genes of interest has been identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example, within a clinical trial. as gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases, gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important diagnostic tool. diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more cost-effective technologies. our technologies sequencing technology our dna sequencing technology, acquired as part of the solexa merger in the first quarter of 2007, is based on the use of our sequencing-by-synthesis (sbs) biochemistry. in sbs, single stranded dna is extended from a priming site, one base at a time, using reversible terminator nucleotides. these are dna bases which can be added to a growing second strand, but which initially cannot be further extended. this means that at each cycle of the chemistry, only one base can be added. each base which is added includes a fluorescent label which is specific to the particular base. thus following incorporation, the fluorescence can be imaged, its color determined, and the base itself can be inferred. once this is done, an additional step removes both the fluorescence and the blocking group that had prevented further extension of the second strand. this allows another base to be added, and the cycle can be repeated. our technology is capable of generating several billion bases of dna sequence from a single experiment with a single sample preparation. the reversible terminator bases that we use are novel synthetic molecules which we manufacture. they are not well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so we have also developed proprietary polymerase enzymes for this purpose. both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant intellectual property owned by us. in our dna sequencing systems, we apply the sbs biochemistry on microscopic islands of dna, referred to as dna clusters. each cluster starts as a single dna molecule, typically a few hundred bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow cell. we then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to create copies of each starting molecule. as the copies are made, they are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot diffuse away. after a number of cycles of amplification, each cluster might have 500 to 1,000 copies of the original starting molecule, but still be only about a micron (one-millionth of a meter) in diameter. by making so many copies, the fluorescent signal from each cluster is significantly increased. because the clusters are so small, tens of millions of clusters can be independently formed inside a single flow cell. this 5 table of contents large number of clusters can then be sequenced simultaneously by alternate cycles of sbs biochemistry and fluorescent imaging. beadarray technology our beadarray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously, enabling large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective, and flexible manner. we achieve high-throughput with a high density of test sites per array and we are able to format arrays either in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard microtiter plates or in various configurations in the format of standard microscope slides. we seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive reagents and valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. our ability to vary the size, shape and format of the well patterns and to create specific bead pools, or sensors, for different applications provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments. we believe that these features have enabled our beadarray technology to become a leading platform for the high-growth market of snp genotyping and have allowed us to be a key player in the gene expression market. our proprietary beadarray technology consists of prepared beads that self-assemble into microwells etched into an array substrate. we have deployed our beadarray technology in two different array formats, the array matrix and the beadchip. our first bead based product was the array matrix which incorporates fiber optic bundles. each bundle is comprised of approximately 50,000 individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into an aluminum plate to form an array matrix. beadchips are microscope slide-size silicon wafers with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. both formats are chemically etched to create tens of thousands to tens of millions of wells for each sample site. in a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in a batch. we make different batches of beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. the particular molecules on a bead define that bead function as a sensor. for example, we create a batch of snp sensors by attaching a particular dna sequence, or a short segment of synthetically manufactured dna called an oligonucleotide (oligo), to each bead in the batch. we combine batches of coated beads to form a pool specific to the type of array we intend to create. a bead pool one milliliter in volume contains sufficient beads to produce thousands of arrays. to form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the wells, one bead per well. the beads in the wells comprise our individual arrays. because the beads assemble randomly into the wells, we perform a final procedure called decoding in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the array. we employ several proprietary methods for decoding, a process that requires only a few steps to identify all the beads in the array. one beneficial by-product of the decoding process is a functional validation of each bead in the array. this quality control test characterizes the performance of each bead and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. we ensure that each bead type on the array is sufficiently represented by including multiple copies of each bead type. multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and accuracy of the resulting data by allowing statistical processing of the results of identical beads. we believe we are the only microarray company to provide this level of quality control in the industry. an experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as dna, and introducing it to the array. the molecules in the sample bind to their matching molecules on the coated beads. the molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with fluorescent dye either before or after the binding. the iscan or beadarray reader detects the fluorescent dye by shining a laser on the fiber optic bundle or on the beadchip. this allows the detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis of the sample. veracode technology our proprietary veracode technology platform leverages the power of digital holographic codes to provide a robust detection method for multiplex assays requiring high precision, accuracy and speed. 6 table of contents commercially launched in march of 2007 for the research market, veracode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to 384-plex in a single well. at the heart of the veracode technology are cylindrical glass beads measuring 240 microns in length by 28 microns in diameter. each veracode bead type is inscribed with a unique digital holographic code to designate and track the specific analyte or genotype of interest throughout the multiplex reaction. we believe the up to 24 bits of information inscribed in each code allows for an unprecedented level of error checking, improves the robustness of the optical readout process and provides a level of reliability that sets a new standard in multiplex testing. unlike traditional microarrays, the veracode microbeads are used in solution, which takes advantage of solution-phase kinetics for more rapid hybridization times, dramatically reducing the time to achieve results. this technology enables us to serve a number of markets including research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals and molecular diagnostics. our products using our proprietary technologies, our products give our customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of complexity from whole genome sequencing to low multiplex assays. this enables us to serve a number of markets, including research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals and molecular diagnostics. the majority of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables based on these various technologies. for the years ended december 28, 2008, december 30, 2007 and december 31, 2006, instrument sales comprised 32%, 33% and 23%, respectively, of total revenues and consumable sales represented 58%, 53% and 54%, respectively, of total revenues. our major products include the following: instrumentation product product description applications launch date genome analyzer ii instrument for high-throughput (14 18gb per run) sequencing using illumina sequencing by synthesis technology. whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression discovery and profiling and epigenomics analysis. q1 2008 iscan system high-resolution imaging instrument to rapidly scan our beadarray based assays. array based whole-genome genotyping, gene expression and dna methylation analysis. q1 2008 beadxpress reader low- to mid-multiplex, high-throughput instrument for readout of assays (e.g., biomarker validation and development of molecular diagnostics) deployed on veracode bead technology. low-multiplex genotyping, gene expression and protein analysis. q1 2007 7 table of contents consumables product product description applications launch date standard sequencing kit reagents used for sequencing by synthesis chemistry on the genome analyzer. whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression discovery and profiling and epigenomics analysis. q1 2007 paired-end genomic dna sample prep kit streamlined library preparation kit to generate 200 500 kb insert paired-end reads. whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression discovery and profiling and epigenomics analysis. q2 2008 infiniumhd whole-genome beadchips multi-sample dna analysis microarrays that interrogate up to 1.2 million markers per sample. product line includes human1m-duo, human610-quad, human660w-quad and humancytosnp-12. array based whole-genome genotyping. q1 q4 2008 iselect custom genotyping beadchips customer designable snp genotyping arrays for 6,000 to 200,000 markers for use with any species. array based custom genotyping. q2 2006 whole-genome gene expression beadchips multi-sample expression profiling arrays with up-to-date content for human, mouse and rat. gene expression profiling and expression quantitative trait loci (qtl) analysis. fy05 fy08 our services sequencing we have been offering sequencing services on our genome analyzers since 2007. our services range from small sets of samples requiring as little as one run to finish, to large-scale projects, like whole-genome sequencing, necessitating multiple instruments running in parallel for extended periods of time. the breadth of applications offered includes novel custom products as well as all released products. these applications include but are not limited to re-sequencing, de novo sequencing, small rna discovery and profiling, gene expression using tag based or using random primed rna sampling technology, chip seq and methylome interrogation. array we have been offering fasttrack genotyping services since 2002. our fasttrack genotyping services offers all of our genotyping products, including standard and custom goldengate, standard infinium and infinium hd, as well as iselect infinium. our projects range in size from a few hundred samples to over 10,000 samples. our current capacity peak is 450 million genotypes per day. our customer base includes academic institutions, and biotech and pharmaceutical companies. intellectual property we have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of february 1, 2009, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to, 135 issued u.s. patents and 168 pending u.s. patent applications, including four allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent application. our issued patents, which are directed at various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments and chemical detection technologies, expire between 2010 and 2026. we are seeking 8 table of contents to extend the patents directed at the full range of our technologies. we have received or filed counterparts for many of these patents and applications in one or more foreign countries. we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and trademark protection, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products. we are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties, which grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits and scanning equipment. we have exclusive licenses from tufts university to patents that are directed at our use of beadarray technology. these patents were filed by dr. david walt, a member of our board of directors, the chairman of our scientific advisory board and one of our founders. our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2010 and 2020. we also have additional nonexclusive licenses from various third parties for other components of our products. in most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation and require that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect. research and development we have made substantial investments in research and development since our inception. we have assembled a team of skilled engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology, chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems, software, manufacturing and other related areas required to complete the development of our products. our research and development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required to optimize our sequencing, beadarray, veracode and oligator technologies and to support commercialization of the products and services derived from these technologies. as of december 28, 2008, we had a total of 406 employees engaged in research and development activities. our research and development expenses for 2008, 2007, and 2006 (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of $14.1 million, $10.0 million and $3.9 million, respectively) were $100.0 million, $73.9 million and $33.4 million, respectively. we expect research and development expense to increase during 2009 as we continue to expand our research and product development efforts. marketing and distribution our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. these experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and agricultural research. our potential customers include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and consumer products companies, as well as academic or private research centers. the genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its size and speed of development will be ultimately driven by, among other items: the ability of the research community to extract medically valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment; the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation required to study genetic variation and biological function; and the availability of government and private industry funding to perform the research required to extract medically relevant information from genomic analysis. we market and distribute our products directly to customers in north america, europe and asia-pacific. in each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service and application support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their respective customer bases. in smaller markets within europe and asia-pacific, 9 table of contents we sell our products and provide services to customers through distributors that specialize in life science products. we expect to significantly increase our sales and distribution resources during 2009 and beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the number of customers that can use our products. manufacturing we manufacture our sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits, scanning equipment and oligos. our manufacturing capacity for consumables has grown to support our increased customer demand during 2008. in the third quarter of 2008, we began shipping beadchips from our new singapore facility. we are also focused on continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of our array matrices, beadchips and flowcells. to continue to increase throughput and improve the quality and manufacturing yield as we increase the complexity of our products, we are exploring ways to continue increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process. we adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances. raw materials our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials and other supplies. while we have multiple commercial sources for many of our components and supplies, there are some raw materials we obtain from single source suppliers. if we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, our business could be temporarily interrupted. to mitigate this risk, we can redesign our products for alternative components or use alternative reagents. in addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain. competition although we expect that our products and services will provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect to encounter intense competition from other companies that offer products and services for the sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression markets. these include companies such as affymetrix, agilent, beckman coulter, complete genomics, fluidigm, ge corp., life technologies, luminex, pacific biosciences, roche diagnostics and sequenom. some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we do. in addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address and in some cases a larger installed base of systems. each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. in order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over competing products. rapid technological development may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete. products offered by us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more effective products based on similar or other technologies. although we believe that our technology and products will offer advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. segment and geographic information during the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating structure into a newly created life sciences business unit, which includes all products and services related to the research market, namely the sequencing, beadarray and beadxpress product lines. we also created a diagnostics business unit to focus on the emerging opportunity in molecular diagnostics. during 2008, we had limited activity related to the diagnostics business unit and operating results were reported on an aggregate basis to our chief operating decision maker, the chief executive officer. accordingly, we operated in one reportable segment during 2008. we currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the united states, including customers in other areas of north america, europe and asia-pacific. shipments to customers outside the united states totaled $293.2 million, or 51% of our total revenue during 2008, compared to $159.1 million, or 43%, and 10 table of contents $81.5 million, or 44%, in 2007 and 2006, respectively. sales to territories outside of the united states were generally denominated in u.s. dollars. in 2008, we reorganized our international structure to establish more efficient channels between product development, product manufacturing and sales. the reorganization increased our foreign subsidiaries anticipated dependence on the u.s. entity for management decisions, financial support, production assets and inventory thereby making the foreign subsidiaries more of a direct and integral component of the u.s. entity operations. as a result, we reassessed the primary economic environment of our foreign subsidiaries and determined the subsidiaries are more u.s. dollar based, resulting in a u.s. dollar functional currency determination. we expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue. see note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations. seasonality historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as academic customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the government fiscal year. environmental matters we are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment. our operations require the use of hazardous materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. we believe we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur. in addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance. employees as of december 28, 2008, we had a total of 1,536 employees. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we consider our employee relations to be positive. our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees. in addition, we employ a number of temporary and contract employees. we face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. executive officers our executive officers and their ages as of february 1, 2009, are as follows: jay flatley , age 56, is president and chief executive officer of illumina. prior to his appointment in 1999, mr. flatley was the president and chief executive officer of molecular dynamics, later acquired by amersham pharmacia biotech in 1998 and now a part of ge healthcare. mr. flatley, who was a founder and member of the board of directors for molecular dynamics, lead the company to its initial public offering (ipo) in 1993, in addition to helping the company develop and launch over 15 major instrumentation systems, including the world first capillary based dna sequencer. prior to joining molecular dynamics, mr. flatley was vice president of engineering and strategic planning for plexus computers, a manufacturer of high-performance unix super-microcomputers. before his career at plexus, mr. flatley was executive vice president for manning technologies and held various manufacturing positions while working for the autolab division of spectra physics. christian henry , age 40 , is senior vice president and chief financial officer. mr. henry joined illumina in june 2005 and is responsible for worldwide financial operations, controllership functions and facilities management. in addition, throughout 2008, mr. henry was acting general manager of illumina dna sequencing business. mr. henry served previously as the chief financial officer for tickets.com, a publicly traded, online ticket provider that was acquired by major league baseball advanced media, lp. prior to that, 11 table of contents mr. henry was vice president, finance and corporate controller of affymetrix, inc., a publicly traded life sciences company, where he oversaw accounting, planning, sec and management reporting, treasury and risk management. he previously held a similar position at nektar therapeutics (formerly inhale therapeutic systems, inc.). christian cabou , age 60 , is senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of illumina. mr. cabou joined illumina in may 2006 and has worldwide responsibility for all legal and intellectual property matters. mr. cabou is also illumina code of ethics compliance officer. before joining illumina, mr. cabou spent five years as general counsel for ge global research and, before that, was senior counsel of global intellectual property for ge medical systems. prior to his position at ge, mr. cabou spent seven years with the law firm foley lardner where he was a partner. he had twenty years of experience in engineering design and management prior to his career in law and intellectual property. greg heath , age 51, is senior vice president general manager, diagnostics business unit of illumina. dr. heath joined illumina in march 2008 and is responsible for managing illumina emerging diagnostics business, specifically overseeing the development of diagnostic content for the beadxpress system, and ultimately for illumina sequencing platform. dr. heath joined illumina from roche molecular systems where he held a number of senior executive positions, including head of clinical genomics, senior vice president of global product marketing, senior vice president of global marketing and business development, and most recently, senior vice president of global business. from 2000 2003, dr. heath was head of business development and licensing for the diagnostics division of f. hoffman la roche in basel. prior to this, dr. heath held numerous roles in marketing and business development with roche diagnostics u.s. affiliate. joel mccomb , age 44, is senior vice president general manager, life sciences business unit of illumina. mr. mccomb joined illumina in march 2008 and is responsible for managing all products and services related to the research market, namely the sequencing, beadarray and veracode product lines. mr. mccomb joined illumina from ge healthcare where he held a number of executive positions, including president of the interventional medicine business and president of life sciences discovery systems. from 2001 2004, mr. mccomb was president, chief executive officer and board member of innovadyne technologies. prior to innovadyne, mr. mccomb held various positions at beckman coulter, including roles as general manager of the primary care diagnostic division and director of corporate business development. tristan orpin , age 42, is senior vice president, commercial operations of illumina. mr. orpin joined illumina in december 2002 in the role of vice president of worldwide sales, and in january of 2007 was promoted to the position of senior vice president of commercial operations. before joining illumina, mr. orpin was director of sales and marketing for sequenom from september 1999 to august 2001. later, mr. orpin was elected vice president of sales and marketing and held this position from august 2001 to november 2002. prior to 2001, mr. orpin served in several senior sales and marketing positions at bio-rad laboratories. mostafa ronaghi, ph.d. , age 40, is senior vice president and chief technology officer of illumina. dr. ronaghi joined illumina in august 2008 and is responsible for leading internal research programs and evaluating new technologies for the company. in 2007, dr. ronaghi co-founded avantome, a privately held sequencing company. before this, he co-founded nextbio, a search engine for life science data. in 2001, dr. ronaghi co-founded parallele bioscience, which was eventually acquired by affymetrix, inc., and was involved in the development and commercialization of highly multiplexed technology for genetic testing. in 1997, he co-founded pyrosequencing ab, which was renamed biotage in 2003. in june 2000, the company completed a successful initial public offering on the stockholm stock exchange. dr. ronaghi was a principal investigator at stanford university from 2002 2008 where he focused on the development of novel tools for molecular diagnostic applications. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. we expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. this would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability. if we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using technologies, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation dna sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. we anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. the markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. for example, prices per data point for genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. for example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, life technologies (previously referred to as applied biosystems group, a business segment of applera corporation) launched the solid tm system , its next generation sequencing technology. if we are unable to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. negative conditions in global credit markets may result in delayed payments from our customers and may negatively impact our smaller suppliers. the recent economic conditions and market turbulence may impact the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. if that were to occur, our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding could increase. additionally, these economic conditions may cause our smaller suppliers to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, which would impair our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. in addition, due to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. in addition, our business depends on the overall demand for methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we rely in large part on the research and development spending of our customers, which is often discretionary, and the recent economic downturn has caused many companies to reduce their research and development budgets. if the current worldwide economic downturn continues, our customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and services. a reduction in demand will reduce our revenues and harm our profitability. due to our increasing foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe and the asia pacific region, as well as manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom and singapore. during 2008, the majority of our sales to international customers and purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of the 13 table of contents relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they may raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. the recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue and thus adversely impact our business or financial conditions. if we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. the nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. for example, we currently use multiple components in our products that are single-sourced. if we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. the failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. these difficulties could impair our profitability. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. if we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our profitability could suffer. our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. 14 table of contents a significant portion of our sales is to international customers. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 51%, 43% and 44% of our revenue for the years ended december 28, 2008, december 30, 2007 and december 31, 2006, respectively. we intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the u.s. and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. export sales entail a variety of risks, including: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; currency exchange fluctuations; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. in addition, we are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could adversely affect our business, specifically the effective launch and customer acceptance of new technology platforms. we have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition; the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management attention from normal daily operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; and the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; acquisitions and other transactions are inherently risky and our previous or future transactions may not be successful. the inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 table of contents any inability to protect effectively our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights abroad. the patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship may also arise. any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. there also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. we also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential information, and we may not otherwise be able to protect effectively our trade secrets. accordingly, others may gain access to our confidential information, or may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques. litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or impact our stock price. our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our ability to protect our own intellectual property. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have a material adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the 16 table of contents award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and maintain profitability. changes in our effective income tax rate could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses including share-based compensation, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, and the result of examinations by various tax authorities. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to ramp up our capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan for 2009, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and hayward, california; singapore; and little chesterford, united kingdom. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes or floods. if a natural disaster were to significantly damage one of our facilities or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services or develop new products. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system, or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and would prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. 17 table of contents we expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars. accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, snp genotyping and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. loss of the tax deduction on our outstanding convertible notes. we could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due in 2014 if the foregoing notes are not subject to the special treasury regulations governing integration of certain debt instruments, the notes are converted, or we invest in non-taxable investments. we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception, and in 2007 we reported a net loss of $278.4 million, reflecting significant charges associated with our acquisition of solexa in january 2007 and the settlement of our litigation with affymetrix. as of december 28, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $332.5 million. our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. non-cash stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. we expect to continue incurring significant expenses related to research and development, sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. in addition, we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. although we have regained profitability, we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly basis. 18 table of contents negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. our investment securities consist of marketable debt securities, including treasury bills and commercial paper with strong credit ratings, corporate bonds and short maturity mutual funds providing similar financial returns. additionally, as of december 28, 2008, we had $55.9 million of auction rate securities issued primarily by municipalities and universities. these securities are debt instruments with a long-term maturity and with an interest rate that is reset in short intervals through auctions. our entire auction rate portfolio is held in a brokerage account with ubs financial services, inc., a subsidiary of ubs ag (ubs) and is currently rated aaa or aa by a rating agency. beginning in february 2008, these auction rate securities became illiquid because their scheduled auctions failed to settle. an auction failure occurs when the parties wishing to sell securities at auction cannot. as of december 28, 2008, the securities continued to fail auction and remained illiquid. various regulatory agencies initiated investigations into the sales and marketing practices of several banks and broker-dealers, including ubs, which sold auction rate securities, alleging violations of federal and state laws. along with several other broker-dealers, ubs subsequently reached a settlement with the federal and state regulators that required them to repurchase auction rate securities from certain investors at par at some future date. in november 2008, we signed a settlement agreement to sell our auction rate securities at par value to ubs during the period of june 30, 2010 through july 2, 2012. the settlement agreement with ubs and the associated put option mitigates the risk of loss on our auction rate security portfolio. however, given the negative conditions in the global credit markets there is still risk that ubs may not be able to fulfill its obligation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not 42 table of contents materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. for example, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2009, our interest income would change by approximately $6.4 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of december 28, 2008. market price sensitive instruments in order to potentially reduce equity dilution, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions, entitling us to purchase up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $21.83 per share, subject to adjustment. in addition, we sold to the counterparties warrants exercisable on a net-share basis, for up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.435 per share, subject to adjustment. the anti-dilutive effect of the note hedge transactions, if any, could be partially or fully offset to the extent the trading price of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on the exercise dates of the warrants, which occur during 2014, assuming the warrants are exercised. foreign currency exchange risk we have operations in the americas, europe and asia-pacific. as a result, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the functional currency for each of our subsidiaries is the u.s. dollar. accordingly, we remeasure the monetary assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries to the u.s. dollar at month-end exchange rates and remeasure the nonmonetary assets and liabilities to the u.s. dollar at historical rates. income and expense amounts related to monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured to the u.s. dollar at the weighted average exchange rates in effect during the relevant period, and income and expense accounts related to nonmonetary assets and liabilities are remeasured to the u.s. dollar at historical exchange rates. remeasurement gains and losses are recognized as income, or expense, in the period of occurrence. in addition, many of our reporting entities conduct a portion of their business in currencies other than the entity u.s. functional currency. these transactions give rise to receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the entity functional currency. the value of these receivables and payables is subject to changes in exchange rates because they may become worth more or less than they were worth at the time we entered into the transaction due to changes in exchange rates. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these receivables and payables are included in the determination of net income. the net currency exchange gain recognized on business transactions was $1.9 million for the year ended december 28, 2008 and is included in other income and expense in the consolidated statements of operations.risk factors our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or 15 table of contents improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. for instance, demand for our microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation, such as snps, and disease susceptibility through genome wide association studies. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. if the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. because our instruments and reagents are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services. although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. in addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business as well as our financial results. 16 table of contents if we do not successfully manage the development and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle it may cause us to delay our product launch date. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched products (or products in development) relative to our existing products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to increase our capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan for 2010, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and hayward, california; singapore; and little chesterford, united kingdom. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services or develop new products. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve 17 table of contents numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. we cannot assure you that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. the timing and extent of funding provided by the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (the recovery act) could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. the recovery act was enacted in february 2009 to provide stimulus to the u.s. economy in the wake of the economic downturn. as part of the recovery act legislation, over $10 billion in funding was provided to the national institute of health through september 2010 to support the advancement of scientific research. a portion of the stimulus funding may support the analysis of genetic variation and biological function and have a significant positive impact on our business. in the short-term, however, our customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products as they wait to learn whether, and to what extent, they will receive stimulus funding. if our customers are unable to obtain stimulus money they may reduce their research and development budgets resulting in a decrease in demand for our products. in addition, it is unclear what will happen to demand for our products after the stimulus funds from the recovery act have been allocated and spent. a decline in demand will reduce our revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. unfavorable global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets. the recent global financial crisis caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. a severe or prolonged economic downturn, such as the recent global financial 18 table of contents crisis, could result in a variety of risks to our business, including, in particular, reductions or delays in planned improvements to healthcare systems, research and development funding, and purchases of our products and services, or cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition, the liquidity of our investment portfolio could be impaired such as when more than $50 million of auction rate securities that we held for investment became illiquid in february 2008 because their scheduled auctions failed. furthermore, as is the case for almost any other business, we face the following risks from a severe or prolonged economic downturn: severely limited access to financing over an extended period of time, which may limit our ability to fund our growth strategy, could result in a need to delay capital expenditures, acquisitions, or research and development projects; losses from our investment portfolio or to a counterparty inability to fulfill its payment obligations; inability to refinance existing debt at competitive rates, reasonable terms, or sufficient amounts; and increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. if that were to occur, our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding could increase. additionally, these economic conditions may cause our smaller suppliers to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, which would impair our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. we cannot assure you that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of the new product or service relative to competing products and services; scientists and customers opinions of the utility of the new product or service; citation of the new product or service in published research; 19 table of contents regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the components or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the nature of our products requires customized components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials timely or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the components or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. an inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2006 to $666.3 million for the year ended january 3, 2010 and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to 1,781 during the same period. we expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. the rapid expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our 20 table of contents products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use stock options and restricted stock to provide incentives for our key personnel to remain with us and to align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee incentive to stay. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe and the asia-pacific region, as well as manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom and singapore. during 2009, the majority of our sales to international customers and purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in u.s. dollars. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 48%, 51%, and 43% of our total revenue for the years ended january 3, 2010, december 28, 2008, and december 30, 2007, respectively. we intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the united states and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. international sales entail a variety of risks, including: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; currency exchange fluctuations; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. the recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions and the possible loss of the tax deduction on our outstanding convertible notes. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, 21 table of contents changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. in addition, we could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our $400 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due in 2014 if these notes are not subject to the special treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, the notes are converted, or we invest in non-taxable investments. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. the patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. in addition, patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship or ownership may also arise. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. there can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. 22 table of contents litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not currently subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, certain of our products are likely to become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable agencies of other countries, including requirements for regulatory approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance from the fda following a pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled as, research use only, or ruo, is uncertain if such products are used or could be used, even without our consent, for the diagnosis of disease. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 table of contents our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, the timing of our customers funding, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final week of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. in addition, the timing of large orders can have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. genetic testing has raised ethical, legal, and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or 24 table of contents regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. for example, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2010, our interest income would change by approximately $6.9 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of january 3, 2010. market price sensitive instruments in order to reduce potential equity dilution, in connection with the issuance (and potential conversion) of our convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions, entitling us to purchase up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $21.83 per share, subject to adjustment. in addition, we sold to the hedge transaction counterparties warrants exercisable on a net-share basis, for up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.435 per share, subject to adjustment. the anti-dilutive effect of the note hedge transactions, if any, could be partially or fully offset to the extent the trading price of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on the exercise dates of the warrants, which occur during 2014, assuming the warrants are exercised. foreign currency exchange risk many of our reporting entities conduct a portion of their business in currencies other than the entity u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the entity functional currency. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, british pound sterling, australian dollar and singapore dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income (loss). we recognized a 46 table of contents net currency exchange gain on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, of $0.4 million and $1.9 million for the years ended january 3, 2010 and december 28, 2008, respectively, which are included in other income (expense), net, in the consolidated statements of operations. during 2009, we began using forward exchange contracts to manage a portion of the foreign currency exposure risk for foreign subsidiaries with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the entity functional currency. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income (loss), as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. at january 3, 2010, we had an immaterial amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge foreign currency risk.risk factors our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and 17 table of contents biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. for instance, demand for our microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation, such as snps, and disease susceptibility through genome wide association studies. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. if the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations, then our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we rapidly scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. in addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. we cannot ensure that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, 18 table of contents achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of the new product or service relative to competing products and services; scientists and customers opinions of the utility of the new product or service; citation of the new product or service in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. if we do not successfully manage the development and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay our product launch date. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched products (or products in development) relative to our existing products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies, and their capital spending budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. these budgets are based on a wide variety of factors, including the allocation of available resources to make purchases, funding from government sources, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. any decrease in capital spending or change in spending priorities of our customers could significantly reduce our revenue. moreover, we have no control over the timing and amount of purchases by our customers, and as a result, revenue from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. any delay or reduction in purchases by our customers or our inability to forecast fluctuations in demand could harm our future operating results. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the components or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured, components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components 19 table of contents and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials timely or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the components or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan for 2011, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and hayward, california; singapore; and little chesterford, united kingdom. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve 20 table of contents numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. we cannot ensure that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. the timing and extent of funding provided by the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (the recovery act) could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. the recovery act was enacted in february 2009 to provide stimulus to the u.s. economy in the wake of the economic downturn. as part of the recovery act legislation, over $10 billion in funding was provided to the national institute of health to support the advancement of scientific research. a portion of the stimulus funding may support the analysis of genetic variation and biological function and have a significant positive impact on our business. if our customers are unable to obtain stimulus money they may reduce their research and development budgets resulting in a decrease in demand for our products. in addition, it is unclear what will happen to demand for our products after the stimulus funds from the recovery act have been allocated and spent. a decline in demand will reduce our revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. unfavorable global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets. the recent global financial crisis caused extreme volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. a severe or prolonged economic downturn, such as the recent global financial crisis, could result in a variety of risks to our business, including, in particular, reductions or delays in planned improvements to healthcare systems, research and development funding, and purchases of our products and 21 table of contents services, or cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition, the liquidity of our investment portfolio could be impaired such as when more than $50 million of auction rate securities that we held for investment became illiquid in february 2008 because their scheduled auctions failed. furthermore, as is the case for almost any other business, we face the following risks from a severe or prolonged economic downturn: severely limited access to financing over an extended period of time, which may limit our ability to fund our growth strategy, could result in a need to delay capital expenditures, acquisitions, or research and development projects; losses from our investment portfolio or to a counterparty inability to fulfill its payment obligations; inability to refinance existing debt at competitive rates, reasonable terms, or sufficient amounts; and increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. if that were to occur, our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding could increase. additionally, these economic conditions may cause our smaller suppliers to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, which would impair our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. an inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2006 to $902.7 million for the year ended january 2, 2011 and with the number of employees increasing from approximately 375 to approximately 2,100 during the same period. we expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. the rapid expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. if we are unable to scale-up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our 22 table of contents products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use stock options and restricted stock units to provide incentives for our key personnel to remain with us and to align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. the patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. in addition, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship or ownership may also arise. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. there can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. 23 table of contents litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil as well as manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom and singapore. during 2010, the majority of our sales to international customers and purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in u.s. dollars. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 45%, 48%, and 51% of our total revenue for the years ended january 2, 2011, january 3, 2010, and december 28, 2008, respectively. we intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the united states and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. international sales entail a variety of risks, including: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; currency exchange fluctuations; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. 24 table of contents changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. the recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions and the possible loss of the tax deduction on our outstanding convertible notes. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the irs or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our $390 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due in 2014 if these notes are not subject to the special treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, the notes are converted, or we invest in non-taxable investments. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not currently subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, certain of our products are likely to become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable agencies of other countries, including requirements for regulatory approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance from the fda following a pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. 25 table of contents in addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled as, research use only, or ruo, is uncertain if such products are used or could be used, even without our consent, for the diagnosis of disease. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, the timing of our customers funding, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final week of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. 26 table of contents ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including the genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. the relocation of our corporate headquarters, which is expected to begin in late 2011, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into a lease agreement for a new corporate headquarters to meet our current and long-term expansion needs. we expect to begin relocating most of our san diego-based operations to this new facility in late 2011. in addition to incurring a one-time non-cash charge of approximately $30 million related to the remaining lease obligations for our current corporate headquarters, we expect to incur additional expenses associated with the relocation itself. although we expect to sublease our current corporate headquarters, we will continue to be subject to rent and lease obligations for our current facility through october 2023. additional risks associated with the relocation, including, in particular, the relocation of oligo manufacturing that currently takes place at our corporate headquarters, may include delays in receiving necessary permits and approvals and business disruption as complex manufacturing equipment is moved. our strategic equity investments may result in losses. we periodically make strategic equity investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. the market values of these strategic equity investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses in proportion to our ownership interest. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of january 2, 2011, we had $390.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $21.83 per share, we expect that noteholders will elect to convert the notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 8.27%. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk for changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do 46 table of contents not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. in addition, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2011, our interest income would change by approximately $8.9 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of january 2, 2011. changes in interest rates may also impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of january 2, 2011, we had $390.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $21.83 per share, we expect that noteholders will elect to convert the notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of the notes has an implicit interest rate of 8.27%. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of the notes would result in a loss of approximately $3.5 million. market price sensitive instruments in order to reduce potential equity dilution, in connection with the issuance (and potential conversion) of our convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions, entitling us to purchase up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $21.83 per share, subject to adjustment. in addition, we sold to the hedge transaction counterparties warrants exercisable on a net-share basis, for up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.435 per share, subject to adjustment. the anti-dilutive effect of the note hedge transactions, if any, could be partially or fully offset to the extent the trading price of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on the exercise dates of the warrants, which occur during 2014, assuming the warrants are exercised. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the entity u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the entity functional currency. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, british pound sterling, australian dollar, and singapore dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we recorded a net currency exchange gain on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, of $1.0 million for each of the years ended january 2, 2011 and january 3, 2010, which are included in other (expense) income, net, in the consolidated statements of income. 47 table of contents we use forward exchange contracts to manage a portion of the foreign currency exposure risk for foreign subsidiaries with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the entity functional currency. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. at january 2, 2011, we had $20.0 million of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge foreign currency risk. 48 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. we are subject to a takeover bid that may be disruptive to our business and threatens to adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 14 table of contents ckh acquisition corp. and roche holding ltd. (together, roche ) have commenced an unsolicited hostile cash tender offer to purchase all of our outstanding common stock. the roche tender offer is subject to numerous conditions, some of which are at the discretion of roche. roche also announced that it intends to oppose the re-election of four directors serving on our board of directors whose terms expire at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, including the chairman of the board and our chief executive officer. in connection with the roche tender offer, four stockholder class action lawsuits have been filed against us, and we anticipate that additional lawsuits may be filed. responding to the roche tender offer, the adverse proxy solicitation, and the lawsuits may be a major distraction for management and may require us to incur significant costs. moreover, the hostile and unsolicited nature of the offer may disrupt our business by causing uncertainty among current and potential employees, producers, suppliers, customers, and other constituencies important to our success, which could negatively impact our financial results and business initiatives. we believe the future trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could be subject to wide price fluctuations based on many factors, including uncertainty associated with the unsolicited offer by roche. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. these provisions include our preferred shares rights agreement ( rights agreement ), commonly known as a poison pill and provisions in our certificate of incorporation that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. one of the conditions of the roche tender offer is the removal or amendment of our rights agreement such that roche's acquisition of our stock would not trigger the provisions of the rights agreement. to date, our board has not agreed to such removal or amendment. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies, and their capital spending budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. these budgets are based on a wide variety of factors, including the allocation of available resources to make purchases, funding from government sources, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. any decrease in capital spending or change in spending priorities of our customers could significantly reduce our revenue. moreover, we have no control over the timing and amount of purchases by our customers, and, as a result, revenue from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. any delay or reduction in purchases by our customers or our inability to forecast fluctuations in demand could harm our future operating results. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the united states and europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting slowing economic growth. research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government 15 table of contents agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. the hostile and unsolicited nature of the roche offer coupled with roche's efforts to oppose the re-election of mr. flatley to our board of directors at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders may adversely affect our business by causing uncertainty among current and potential employees. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use stock options and restricted stock units to provide incentives for our key personnel to remain with us and to align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. for instance, demand for our microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation, such as snps, and disease susceptibility through genome wide association studies. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our 16 table of contents products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. if the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations, then our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. in addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive, and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to develop successfully and timely introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results 17 table of contents expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched products (or products in development) relative to our existing products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the components or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the components or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and hayward, california; singapore; and little chesterford, united kingdom. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us 18 table of contents from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship or ownership may also arise. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on 19 table of contents favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. there can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not currently subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, certain of our products are likely to become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable agencies of other countries, including requirements for regulatory approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance from the fda following a pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite 20 table of contents regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled as, research use only, or ruo, is uncertain if such products are used or could be used, even without our consent, for the diagnosis of disease. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom and singapore. during 2011, the majority of our sales to international customers and purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in u.s. dollars. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 50%, 45%, and 48% of our total revenue for the years ended january 1, 2012, january 2, 2011, and january 3, 2010, respectively. we intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the united states and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. international sales entail a variety of risks, including: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; currency exchange fluctuations; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. the recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions and the possible loss of the tax deduction on our outstanding convertible notes. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the irs or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if 21 table of contents material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our outstanding convertible notes if these notes are not subject to the special treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, the notes are converted, or we invest in non-taxable investments. an inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2006 to $1,055.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2012 and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to approximately 2,200 during the same period. we expect to continue to experience substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. the continued global expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final week of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. 22 table of contents changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including the genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our strategic equity investments may result in losses. we periodically make strategic equity investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. the market values of these strategic equity investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses in proportion to our ownership interest. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of january 1, 2012, we had $40 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2014 and $920 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $21.83 per share with respect to convertible notes due 2014 and $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we expect that the noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 8.3% with respect to convertible notes due 2014 and 4.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2016. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 41 table of contents interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. in addition, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2012, our interest income would change by approximately $11.9 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of january 2, 2011. changes in interest rates may also impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. during 2011, we issued $920 million in aggregate principal amount of our 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2016. at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in each case under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price for a sustained period at 130% above the conversion price of $83.55 , the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rate for the notes is 4.5%. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of the notes would result in a loss of approximately $4.0 million. market price sensitive instruments in order to reduce potential equity dilution, in connection with the issuance (and potential conversion) of our 0.625% convertible senior notes due 2014, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions, entitling us to purchase up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $21.83 per share, subject to adjustment. in addition, we sold to the hedge transaction counterparties warrants exercisable on a net-share basis, for up to 18,322,320 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.435 per share, subject to adjustment. the anti-dilutive effect of the note hedge transactions, if any, could be partially or fully offset to the extent the trading price of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on the exercise dates of the warrants, which occur during 2014, assuming the warrants are exercised. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the company's u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, british pound sterling, australian dollar, and singapore dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we recorded an immaterial net currency exchange loss for the fiscal year ended january 1, 2012 , and a gain of $1.0 million for the fiscal year ended january 2, 2011 on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, which are included in other (expense) income, net, in our consolidated statements of income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage a portion of the foreign currency exposure risk for foreign subsidiaries with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. at january 1, 2012 , we had $25.5 million of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge foreign currency risk. 42 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies, and their capital spending budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. these budgets are based on a wide variety of factors, including the allocation of available resources to make purchases, funding from government sources, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. any decrease in capital spending or change in spending priorities of our customers could significantly reduce our revenue. moreover, we have no control over the timing and amount of 14 table of contents purchases by our customers, and, as a result, revenue from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. any delay or reduction in purchases by our customers or our inability to forecast fluctuations in demand could harm our future operating results. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the united states and europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting slowing economic growth. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. for instance, the significance and timing of anticipated reductions to the nih budget from march 2013 may be significantly impacted by the sequestration provisions of the budget control act of 2011 and whether these provisions remain in effect. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; 15 table of contents claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. for instance, demand for our microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation, such as snps, and disease susceptibility through genome wide association studies. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. if the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations, then our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. in addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive, and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving 16 table of contents our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to develop successfully and timely introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched products (or products in development) relative to our existing products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the components or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially 17 table of contents reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the components or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our president and chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use stock options and restricted stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and hayward, california; madison, wisconsin; singapore; and cambridge, united kingdom. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and 18 table of contents many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship or ownership may also arise. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. there can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. 19 table of contents p roducts are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable agencies of other countries, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance from the fda following a pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process required to design, manufacture, market, sell , and support our existing and future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled as, research use only, or ruo, is uncertain if such products are used or could be used, even without our consent, for the diagnosis of disease. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in the united kingdom and singapore. during 2012 , the majority of our sales to international customers were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in u.s. dollars. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 51% , 50% , and 45% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , respectively. we intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the united states and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. international sales entail a variety of risks, including: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; currency exchange fluctuations; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. the recent global financial downturn 20 table of contents has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. an inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2006 to $1.15 billion for the year ended december 30, 2012 and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to approximately 2,400 during the same period. we expect to continue to experience substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. the continued global expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final week of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the 21 table of contents possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our strategic equity investments may result in losses. we periodically make strategic equity investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. the market values of these strategic equity investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses in proportion to our ownership interest. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of december 30, 2012 , we had $40 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2014 and $920 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common 22 table of contents stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $21.83 per share with respect to convertible notes due 2014 and $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we expect that the noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 8.3% with respect to convertible notes due 2014 and 4.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2016. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. these provisions include our preferred shares rights agreement, commonly known as a poison pill and provisions in our certificate of incorporation that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. in addition, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2013 , our interest income would change by approximately $13.5 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of december 30, 2012 . changes in interest rates may also impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. during 2011, we issued $920 million in aggregate principal amount of our 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2016. at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in each case under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price for a sustained period at 130% above the conversion price of $83.55, the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rate for the notes is 4.5%. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of the notes would result in a loss of approximately $3.0 million . 43 table of contents market price sensitive instruments in order to reduce potential equity dilution, in connection with the issuance (and potential conversion) of our 0.625% convertible senior notes due 2014, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions, entitling us to purchase up to 18,322,000 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $21.83 per share, subject to adjustment. in addition, we sold to the hedge transaction counterparties warrants exercisable on a net-share basis, for up to 18,322,000 shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.435 per share, subject to adjustment. the anti-dilutive effect of the note hedge transactions, if any, could be partially or fully offset to the extent the trading price of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on the exercise dates of the warrants, which occur during 2014, assuming the warrants are exercised. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the company's u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, british pound sterling, australian dollar, and singapore dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we recorded a $3.7 million net currency exchange loss for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2012 on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, which are included in other (expense) income, net, in our consolidated statements of income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage a portion of the foreign currency exposure risk for foreign subsidiaries with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of december 30, 2012 , the total notional amount of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was approximately $51.2 million . 44 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. for instance, in january 2014 we announced significant additions to our instrument platforms, the hiseq x ten and the nextseq 500, which include dramatic technology advances. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched products (or products in development) relative to our existing products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to develop successfully and timely introduce new products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: 13 table of contents availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. for instance, demand for our microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation, such as snps, and disease susceptibility through genome wide association studies. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies, and their capital spending budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. these budgets are based on a wide variety of factors, including the allocation of available resources to make purchases, funding from government sources, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. any decrease in capital spending or change in spending priorities of our customers could significantly reduce our revenue. moreover, we have no control over the timing and amount of purchases by our customers, and, as a result, revenue from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. any delay or reduction in purchases by our customers or our inability to forecast fluctuations in demand could harm our future operating results. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the united states and europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting uncertain economic growth. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 14 table of contents our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. if the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations, then our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. although we have established internal policies and procedures aligned to global quality standards to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. in addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive, and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 15 table of contents litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products 16 table of contents that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and the san francisco bay area in california; madison, wisconsin; and singapore. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. if we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. we intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. however, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. questions as to inventorship or ownership may also arise. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. 17 table of contents there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. there can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. products are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our fda-cleared miseqdx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable international agencies and may require either receiving clearance from the fda following a pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, if our products labeled as research use only, or ruo, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm or do not perform in accordance with specifications, in part because our products are used for sensitive applications. we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in: decreased demand for our products; injury to our reputation; increased product liability insurance costs; costs of related litigation; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 18 table of contents as we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market. physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, or sell, such as our verifi prenatal test, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid and governmental payors outside of the united states, pay a substantial portion of the test price. third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient, cost-effective, supported by peer-reviewed publications, and included in clinical practice guidelines since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. as a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. this process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell. this could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. even if we are being reimbursed for our tests, third party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with us at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. in addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services. these measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations. billing complexities associated with obtaining payment or reimbursement for our diagnostic tests may negatively affect our revenues, cash flow, and profitability, and we may incur additional financial risk related to collections and reimbursement in connection with the commercialization of our diagnostic tests. billing for clinical laboratory testing services is complex, and we have limited experience in billing and pursuing reimbursement and payment for diagnostic tests. as a result of this lack of experience and uncertainty with respect to reimbursement, we may also face an increased risk in our collection efforts, including potential write-offs of doubtful accounts and long collection cycles for accounts receivable related to our testing service, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. among the factors complicating our billing of third-party payors are: disputes among payors as to which party is responsible for payment; disparity in coverage among various payors; disparity in information and billing requirements among payors; and incorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the prescribing physician. these billing complexities, and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 19 table of contents doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in singapore. during 2013 , a significant portion of our sales to international customers were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in u.s. dollars. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 50% , 51% , and 50% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. we intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the united states and we expect the total amount of non-u.s. sales to continue to grow. international sales entail a variety of risks, including: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; currency exchange fluctuations; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. the recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. an inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2006 to $1.42 billion for the year ended december 29, 2013 , and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to more than 3,000 during the same period. we expect to continue to experience substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. the continued global expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to 20 table of contents enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, 21 table of contents legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our strategic investments may result in losses. we periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. the market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers; sell our products and services; fulfill orders; bill, collect, and make payments; ship products; provide services and support to customers; track customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of december 29, 2013 , we had $920 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we expect that the noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 4.5% with respect to 22 table of contents convertible notes due 2016. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. our certificate of incorporation has provisions that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. in addition, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2014 , our interest income would change by approximately $11.7 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of december 29, 2013 . changes in interest rates may also impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. during 2011, we issued $920 million in aggregate principal amount of our 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2016. at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in each case under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price for a sustained period at 130% above the conversion price of $83.55 , the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rate for the notes is 4.5% . an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of the notes would result in a loss of approximately $2.2 million . 42 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the company's u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, british pound sterling, australian dollar, and singapore dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we recorded a $4.3 million net currency exchange loss for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2013 on business transactions, excluding hedging transactions, which are included in other income (expense), net, in our consolidated statements of income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage a portion of the foreign currency exposure risk for foreign subsidiaries with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of december 29, 2013 , the total notional amount of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $54.7 million . 43 table of contentsrisk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs with respect to newly launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. for instance, in january 2015 we announced significant expansions to our sequencing instrument platforms, the hiseq x five system and the hiseq 3000/4000 systems. when we introduce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand (including with respect to our existing products), manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new or enhanced products. announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available. our failure to effectively manage product transitions or introductions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. 11 table of contents the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. 12 table of contents if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. if we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify applicable regulatory authorities about a recall. if our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply 13 table of contents of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the united states and europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting uncertain economic growth. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; 14 table of contents inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. an interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business. we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and the san francisco bay area in california; madison, wisconsin; and singapore. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. in addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers; sell our products and services; fulfill orders; bill, collect, and make payments; ship products; provide services and support to customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. . certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. 15 table of contents if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. we are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including jay flatley, our chief executive officer. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco areas, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. as a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. any such breach could 16 table of contents compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our fda-regulated miseqdx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the fda following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, if our products labeled as research use only, or ruo, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if the fda requires in the future that any of our ldt products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the clinical laboratory improvements amendments (clia) of 1988. these products are commonly called laboratory developed tests, or ldts. for a number of years, the fda has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate ldts as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. however, the fda has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of ldts may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing ldts. in october 2014, the fda published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of ldts by the fda based on risk to patients rather than whether the ldts were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory. the draft framework guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk ldts, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as ldts. we cannot predict the nature or extent of the fda's final guidance or regulation of ldts, in general, or with respect to our ldts, in particular. if the fda requires in the future that ldt products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications. we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in: decreased demand for our products; 17 table of contents injury to our reputation; increased product liability insurance costs; costs of related litigation; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. as we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market. physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, or sell, such as our verifi prenatal test, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid and governmental payors outside of the united states, pay a substantial portion of the test price. third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient, cost-effective, supported by peer-reviewed publications, and included in clinical practice guidelines. since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. as a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. this process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell. this could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. even if our tests are being reimbursed, third party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. in addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services. these measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in singapore. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 49% , 50% , and 51% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , respectively. 18 table of contents during 2014 , a significant portion of our sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in u.s. dollars. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition to the foregoing risks, international operations entail the following risks: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. an inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended january 1, 2006 to $1.86 billion for the year ended december 28, 2014 , and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to more than 3,700 during the same period. we expect to continue to experience substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans. the continued global expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems. our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis. if we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 19 table of contents our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 20 table of contents our strategic investments may result in losses. we periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. the market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of december 28, 2014 , we had $320.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016, $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we believe that some noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 4.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2016, 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, and 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. our certificate of incorporation has provisions that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. in addition, if a 100 basis point change in overall interest rates were to occur in 2015 , our interest income would change by approximately $13.4 million in relation to amounts we would expect to earn, based on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of december 28, 2014 . changes in interest rates may impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. in june 2014, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 notes) and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 notes). similar to our 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2016, at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price at 130% above the conversion price, the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rates for the 2019 and 2021 notes were 2.9% and 3.5% , respectively. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of 40 table of contents $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2019 and 2021 notes would result in losses of approximately $4.1 million and $5.5 million , respectively. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the company's u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, and australian dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we recorded a $5.4 million net currency exchange loss for the fiscal year ended december 28, 2014 on business transactions, excluding hedging transactions, which are included in other (expense) income, net, in our consolidated statements of income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risks related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of december 28, 2014 , the total notional amount of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $61.0 million . 41 table of contentsrisk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs with respect to newly launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. for instance, in january 2016 we announced an expansion to our sequencing instrument platforms, the miniseq system, and we previewed a new sequencing system currently under development that will deploy sbs chemistry on a semiconductor chip. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. when we introduce or announce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand (including with respect to our existing products), manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new or enhanced products. announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available. our failure to effectively manage product transitions or introductions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 11 table of contents our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are relatively new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render one or more of our technologies obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences, clinical genomics, and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; 12 table of contents the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. defects or errors in our products may discourage customers from purchasing our products. the costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. if we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify applicable regulatory authorities about a recall. if our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. as we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market. physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, or sell, such as our verifi prenatal test, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid and governmental payors outside of the united states, pay a substantial portion of the test price. third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: not experimental or investigational; medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient; cost-effective; supported by peer-reviewed publications; and included in clinical practice guidelines. since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. as a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. this 13 table of contents process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell. this could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. even if our tests are being reimbursed, third party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. in addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services. these measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or sub-assemblies, components, and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured sub-assemblies, components, and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some sub-assemblies, components, and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these sub-assemblies, components, or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, in whole or in part, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, sub-assemblies, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing 14 table of contents products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the united states and europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting uncertain economic growth. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. 15 table of contents in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna and enzymes, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. an interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business. we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and the san francisco bay area in california; madison, wisconsin; and singapore. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. in addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers; sell our products and services; fulfill orders; bill, collect, and make payments; ship products; provide services and support to customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. 16 table of contents if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. our future success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and scientific and engineering personnel. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, software, engineering, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science and technology companies, universities, and research institutions. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco areas, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. our strategic investments and joint ventures may result in losses. we periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. in addition, we periodically form companies, such as grail and helix, that remain consolidated with our financial statements but receive substantial funding from third-party investors who are granted certain control and governance rights. the market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. 17 table of contents security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information, products, and services and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information (and that of our customers), and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. as a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services, including instruments at our customers' sites; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our fda-regulated miseqdx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the fda following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, if our products labeled as research use only, or ruo, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if the fda requires in the future that any of our ldt products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the clinical laboratory improvements amendments (clia) of 1988. these products are commonly called laboratory developed tests, or ldts. for a number of years, the fda has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate ldts as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. however, the fda has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of ldts may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing ldts. in october 2014, the fda published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of ldts by the fda based on risk to patients rather than whether the ldts were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory. the draft framework guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk ldts, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as ldts. we cannot predict the nature or extent of the fda's final guidance or regulation of ldts, in general, or with respect to our ldts, in particular. if the fda requires in the future that ldt products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 table of contents if product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications. product liability claims filed against us or against third parties who we may have an obligation could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages or reputational risk. we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in: decreased demand for our products; injury to our reputation; increased product liability insurance costs; costs of related litigation; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in singapore. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 46% , 49% , and 50% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. during 2015 , a significant portion of our sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in u.s. dollars. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if, in order to continue doing business with us, they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition to the foregoing risks, international operations entail the following risks: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and 19 table of contents significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. to meet the anticipated growth in our business, we may incur fixed expenses, such as costs related to facility expansions, before we generate revenue sufficient to fully support such expenses. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. disruption of critical information technology systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could have an adverse effect on our operations, business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology systems (it) help us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including product manufacturing and supply chain, sales forecast, order fulfillment and billing, customer service, logistics, and management of financial reports and data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, power loss, natural disasters, human acts, computer viruses, computer denial-of- 20 table of contents service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, disruption of our operations, which could harm our reputation and financial results. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper it infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. as a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our it systems, in 2015 we implemented new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations. as we continue to adjust our work-flow and business practices and add additional functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. in particular, accounting rules related to companies that we form together with, or that receive substantial funding from, third-party investors such as grail and helix are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of january 3, 2016 , we had $75.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016, $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we believe that some noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 4.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2016, 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, and 21 table of contents 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. our certificate of incorporation has provisions that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law (dgcl), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. changes in interest rates may impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. in june 2014, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 notes) and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 notes). similar to our 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2016, at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price at 130% above the conversion price, the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rates for the 2019 and 2021 notes were 2.9% and 3.5% , respectively. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2019 and 2021 notes would result in losses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million , respectively. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the company's u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, and australian dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risks related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of january 3, 2016 , the total notional amount of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $61.3 million . 40 table of contentsrisk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this form 10-k, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs with respect to newly launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. for instance, in january 2017 we announced our novaseq 5000 and 6000 instrument systems, which were developed using our new sequencing architecture. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. when we introduce or announce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand (including with respect to our existing products), manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new or enhanced products. announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available. our failure to effectively manage product transitions or introductions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 11 table of contents our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. we design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation or biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are relatively new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or sub-assemblies, components, and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. 12 table of contents the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured sub-assemblies, components, and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some sub-assemblies, components, and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these sub-assemblies, components, or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, in whole or in part, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, sub-assemblies, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. defects or errors in our products may discourage customers from purchasing our products. the costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. if we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify applicable regulatory authorities about a recall. if our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render one or more of our technologies obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences, clinical genomics, and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. 13 table of contents the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. as we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market. physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, or sell, such as our verifi prenatal test, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid and governmental payors outside of the united states, pay a substantial portion of the test price. third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: not experimental or investigational; medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient; cost-effective; supported by peer-reviewed publications; and included in clinical practice guidelines. since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. as a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. this process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell. this could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. even if our tests are being reimbursed, third party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. in addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services. these measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations. litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain 14 table of contents one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the united states and europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting uncertain economic growth. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, known or unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. 15 table of contents in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna and enzymes, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. an interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business. we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and the san francisco bay area in california; madison, wisconsin; and singapore. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. in addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. we also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers; sell our products and services; fulfill orders; bill, collect, and make payments; ship products; provide services and support to customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise conduct business. our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. our future success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and scientific and engineering personnel. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, software, engineering, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science and technology companies, universities, and research institutions. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco areas, is intense, 16 table of contents and the turnover rate can be high. moreover, changes in immigration policies, laws and regulations in the united states or other jurisdictions may make it more difficult for us to hire and retain members of management and scientific and engineering personnel. failure to attract and retain management and scientific and engineering personnel could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the company by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. our strategic investments and joint ventures may result in losses. we periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. in addition, we periodically form companies, such as grail and helix, that remain consolidated within our financial statements but receive substantial funding from third-party investors who are granted certain control and governance rights. the market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. in january 2017, we announced that grail has received indications of interest to invest approximately $1 billion for grail's series b financing, primarily from undisclosed private and strategic investors. grail intends to raise additional capital in the series b financing from other investors and has engaged a placement agent in connection with the contemplated additional financing. grail intends to close the series b prior to the end of march 2017. as of the closing of this transaction, we expect our voting interest to become less than 20 percent and that our remaining interest in grail will be treated as a cost-method investment. in addition, we will no longer have representation on grail's board of directors. any failure by grail to close the contemplated financing transactions would have a significant, negative impact on its ability to grow. such a failure 17 table of contents could also result in the continued consolidation of grail within our financial statements, which would result in incremental dilution compared to fiscal year 2016. security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information, products, and services and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information (and that of our customers), and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. as a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services, including instruments at our customers' sites; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our fda-regulated miseqdx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products are regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the fda following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, if our products labeled as for research use only. not for use in diagnostic procedures, or ruo, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could change or be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if the fda requires in the future that any of our ldt products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the clinical laboratory improvements amendments (clia) of 1988. these products are commonly called laboratory developed tests, or ldts. for a number of years, the fda has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate ldts as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. however, the fda has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of ldts may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing ldts. in october 2014, the fda published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of ldts by the fda based on risk to patients rather than whether the ldts were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory. the draft framework guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk ldts, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as ldts. we cannot predict the nature or extent of the fda's final guidance or regulation of ldts, in general, or with respect to our ldts, in particular. if the fda requires in the future that 18 table of contents ldt products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications. product liability claims filed against us or against third parties to whom we may have an obligation could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages or reputational risk. we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in: decreased demand for our products; injury to our reputation; increased product liability insurance costs; costs of related litigation; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in singapore. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 46% , 46% , and 49% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. during 2016 , a significant portion of our sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in u.s. dollars. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if, in order to continue doing business with us, they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition to the foregoing risks, international operations entail the following risks: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; 19 table of contents difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, anti-competition regulations and sanctions imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control and other similar laws and regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax policies, laws, regulations, or rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), location of operations, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. to meet the anticipated growth in our business, we may incur fixed expenses, such as costs related to facility expansions, before we generate revenue sufficient to fully support such expenses. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from 20 table of contents such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. we may not be able to convert our order backlog into revenue. our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance-sheet date. however, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products. we may not receive revenue from some of these orders, and the order backlog we report may not be indicative of our future revenue. many events can cause an order to be delayed or not completed at all, some of which may be out of our control. if we delay fulfilling customer orders, or if customers reconsider their orders, those customers may seek to cancel or modify their orders with us. customers may otherwise seek to cancel or delay their orders even if we are prepared to fulfill them. if our orders in backlog do not result in sales, our operating results may suffer. disruption of critical information technology systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could have an adverse effect on our operations, business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology systems (it) help us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including product manufacturing and supply chain, sales forecast, order fulfillment and billing, customer service, logistics, and management of financial reports and data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, power loss, natural disasters, human acts, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, disruption of our operations, which could harm our reputation and financial results. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper it infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. as we continuously adjust our work-flow and business practices and add additional functionality to our enterprise resource planning software and other software applications, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. in particular, accounting rules related to companies that we form together with, or that receive substantial funding from, third-party investors such as grail and helix are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. 21 table of contents ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of january 1, 2017 , we had $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, and 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. our certificate of incorporation has provisions that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law (dgcl), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments. changes in interest rates may impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. in june 2014, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 notes) and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 notes). at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price at 130% above the conversion price, the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rates for the 2019 and 2021 notes were 2.9% and 3.5% , respectively. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2019 and 2021 notes would result in losses of approximately $2.5 million and $4.1 million , respectively. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the company's u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, and australian dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risks related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of january 1, 2017 , the total notional amount of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $68.8 million . 40 table of contentsrisk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this report, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the 10 table of contents markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. our products are designed for use in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, pharmaceutical, and consumer genomics industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in clinical, research, and consumer applications. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation or biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are relatively new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach what we expect to be their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into valuable information. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect. if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, transition requirements or programs with respect to newly-launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. for instance, in 2017, we announced and launched our novaseq 6000 instrument system, which was developed using our new sequencing architecture, and in 2018 we launched our iseq 100 instrument system, which combines cmos sensor technology with our proprietary sequencing technology. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or a lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 11 table of contents as we announce future products or integrate new products into our portfolio, such as new instruments or instrument platforms, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions and the evolution of our product portfolio. we may be unable to accurately forecast new product demand and the impact of new products on the demand for current or established products. we may experience challenges relating to managing excess and obsolete inventories, managing new or higher product cost structures, and managing different sales and support requirements. announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our current or established products until new products become available. in addition, customers may defer or stop purchasing our current or established products as they assess the features and technological characteristics of new products, as compared to our current or established products, before making a financial commitment. if customers elect to purchase newly-introduced products rather than established products, revenue recognition on such purchases may be delayed because the availability of newly-introduced products is generally constrained (compared to established products) as we scale-up manufacturing, sales, and support requirements for newly-introduced products. our failure to effectively manage the evolution of our product portfolio, including product transitions or introductions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide range of competing technologies. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render one or more of our technologies obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, more focused product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences, clinical genomics, and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. for example, the market for noninvasive prenatal testing is rapidly developing, and if our competitors are able to develop and commercialize products superior to or less expensive than ours, our business could be adversely impacted. established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests, potentially creating a competitive advantage for them. we and our competitors also compete on the basis of price. as the cost of analyzing genetic variation and biological function falls over time, as we expect, we cannot be sure that the demand for related products and services will increase proportionately. in the future, if the demand for our products and services proves to be more insensitive to lower sequencing costs than we expect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or sub-assemblies, components, and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured sub-assemblies, components, and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some sub-assemblies, components, and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these sub-assemblies, components, or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or at satisfactory qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, in whole or in part, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, 12 table of contents or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, sub-assemblies, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. defects or errors in our products may discourage customers from purchasing our products. the costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise, and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. if we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify applicable regulatory authorities about a recall. if our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. as we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market. physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, sell, or enable such as our prenatal tests, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid and governmental payors outside of the united states, pay a substantial portion of the test price. third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: not experimental or investigational; medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient; cost-effective; supported by peer-reviewed publications; and included in clinical practice guidelines. since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. as a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. this process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell. this could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 13 table of contents even if our tests are being reimbursed, third-party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. in addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services. these measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations. litigation, other proceedings, or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share. in addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; 14 table of contents underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, known or unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. if we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna and enzymes, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), or prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. an interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business. we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and the san francisco bay area in california; madison, wisconsin; and singapore. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. in addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and 15 table of contents storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis could be adversely impacted and we could be prevented from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. our future success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and scientific and engineering personnel. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, software, engineering, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science and technology companies, universities, and research institutions. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco areas, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. moreover, changes in immigration policies, laws and regulations in the united states or other jurisdictions may make it more difficult for us to hire and retain members of management and scientific and engineering personnel. failure to attract and retain management and scientific and engineering personnel could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with ours by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and, therefore, reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third-party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. our strategic investments and joint ventures may result in losses. we periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. in addition, we periodically form companies, such as helix, that remain consolidated within our financial statements but receive substantial funding from third-party investors who are granted certain control and 16 table of contents governance rights. the market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information, products, and services and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information (and that of our customers), and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. as a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services, including instruments at our customers' sites; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our fda-regulated miseqdx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. molecular diagnostic products are regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the fda following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, if our products labeled as for research use only. not for use in diagnostic procedures, or ruo, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could change or be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if the fda requires in the future that any of our ldt products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the clinical laboratory improvements amendments (clia) of 1988. these products are commonly called laboratory developed tests, or ldts. for a number of years, the fda has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion not to regulate ldts as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. however, the fda has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of ldts may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing ldts. in october 2014, the fda published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of ldts by the fda based on risk to patients rather than whether the ldts were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory. the draft framework 17 table of contents guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk ldts, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as ldts. we cannot predict the nature or extent of the fda's final guidance or regulation of ldts, in general, or with respect to our ldts, in particular. if the fda requires in the future that ldt products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications. product liability claims filed against us or against third parties to whom we may have an obligation could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages or reputational risk. we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in: decreased demand for our products; injury to our reputation; increased product liability insurance costs; costs of related litigation; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in singapore. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 45% , 46% , and 46% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. during 2017, a significant portion of our international sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in u.s. dollars. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if, in order to continue doing business with us, they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition to the foregoing risks, international operations entail the following risks: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; 18 table of contents unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, anti-competition regulations and sanctions imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control and other similar laws and regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax policies, laws, regulations, or rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), location of operations, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter. in light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. to meet the anticipated growth in our business, we may incur fixed expenses, such as costs related to facility expansions, before we generate revenue sufficient to fully support such expenses. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. 19 table of contents from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period-to-period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. we may not be able to convert our order backlog into revenue. our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance sheet date. however, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products. we may not receive revenue from some of these orders, and the order backlog we report may not be indicative of our future revenue. many events can cause an order to be delayed or not completed at all, some of which may be out of our control. if we delay fulfilling customer orders, or if customers reconsider their orders, those customers may seek to cancel or modify their orders with us. customers may otherwise seek to cancel or delay their orders even if we are prepared to fulfill them. if our orders in backlog do not result in sales, our operating results may suffer. disruption of critical information technology systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could have an adverse effect on our operations, business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology (it) systems help us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including product manufacturing and supply chain, sales forecast, order fulfillment and billing, customer service, logistics, and management of financial reports and data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, power loss, natural disasters, human acts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, disruption of our operations, which could harm our reputation and financial results. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper it infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. as we continuously adjust our work-flow and business practices and add additional functionality to our enterprise resource planning software and other software applications, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. in particular, accounting rules related to companies that we form together with, or that receive substantial funding from, third-party investors, such as helix, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. 20 table of contents ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests, even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $633 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, and $517 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, and 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. our certificate of incorporation has provisions that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law (dgcl), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment-grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest-sensitive financial instruments. changes in interest rates may impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. in june 2014, we issued $633 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 notes) and $517 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 notes). at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price at 130% above the conversion price, the notes will become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rates for the 2019 and 2021 notes were 2.9% and 3.5% , respectively. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2019 and 2021 notes would result in losses of approximately $2 million and $3 million , respectively. 39 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than our u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, yen, australian dollar, and canadian dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risks related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of december 31, 2017 , the total notional amount of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $88 million . 40 table of contentsrisk factors. our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. in addition to the other information included in this report, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. 10 table of contents our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products. our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions. accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis. if we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors. we believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers invest time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made. to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain. an inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. in the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products. there can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies. some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include: availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services; the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services; scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services; citation of new products or services in published research; regulatory trends and approvals; and general trends in life sciences research and applied markets. we may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, and continued substantial increases in the use of sequencing as the cost of sequencing declines. our products are designed for use in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, pharmaceutical, and consumer genomics industries. the usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in clinical, research, and consumer applications. we are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation or biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling. these markets are relatively new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach what we expect to be their full potential. other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into valuable information. in addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. if useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect. the introduction of next-generation sequencing technologies, including ours, has reduced the cost of sequencing by a factor of more than 10,000 and reduced the sequencing time per gb by a factor of approximately 12,000. consequently, demand for sequencing-related products and services has increased substantially as new applications are enabled and more sequencing is done in connection with existing applications. if, as we expect, the cost of sequencing continues to fall over time, we cannot be sure that the demand for related products and services will increase at least proportionately as new applications are enabled or more sequencing is done in connection with existing applications. in the future, if demand for our products and services due to lower sequencing costs is less than we expect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. 11 table of contents if we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested. in addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, transition requirements or programs with respect to newly-launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products. if our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. if we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date. the expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities, or a lack of market acceptance of our new products, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. as we announce future products or integrate new products into our portfolio, such as new instruments or instrument platforms, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions and the evolution of our product portfolio. we may be unable to accurately forecast new product demand and the impact of new products on the demand for current or established products. we may experience challenges relating to managing excess and obsolete inventories, managing new or higher product cost structures, and managing different sales and support requirements. announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our current or established products until new products become available. in addition, customers may defer or stop purchasing our current or established products as they assess the features and technological characteristics of new products, as compared to our current or established products, before making a financial commitment. if customers elect to purchase newly-introduced products rather than established products, revenue recognition on such purchases may be delayed because the availability of newly-introduced products is generally constrained (compared to established products) as we scale-up manufacturing, sales, and support requirements for newly-introduced products. our failure to effectively manage the evolution of our product portfolio, including product transitions or introductions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or sub-assemblies, components, and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all. the complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured sub-assemblies, components, and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some sub-assemblies, components, and materials, from only a single source. if deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these sub-assemblies, components, or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or at satisfactory qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products. we may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, in whole or in part, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. in addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. the time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all. in addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, sub-assemblies, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements. current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the democratic republic of the congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs. any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our planned acquisition (the acquisition) of pacific biosciences of california, inc. (pacbio) may not occur in the expected time frame, which may negatively affect the benefits we expect to obtain from the transaction and increase transaction costs, or may not occur at all. the agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement) for the acquisition contains customary representations, warranties, indemnities and closing conditions, including the expiration or early termination of the waiting period under the 12 table of contents hart-scott rodino antitrust improvements act (the hsr act), and receipt of any other required antitrust approvals in foreign jurisdictions. we have received a request for additional information and documentary material, often referred to as a second request, from the federal trade commission (ftc) in connection with the merger agreement. consummation of the acquisition is conditioned on expiration of the waiting period applicable under the hsr act, among other conditions. the effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period under the hsr act until 30 days after all parties to the merger agreement have substantially complied with the second request, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier by the ftc or the parties and the ftc voluntarily extend the waiting period. the ftc and governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions have broad discretion in administering governing laws and regulations and may take into account various facts and circumstances in their consideration of the acquisition, including other potential transactions in the life sciences industry or other industries. these governmental authorities may initiate proceedings seeking to prevent, or otherwise seek to prevent, the acquisition. we currently anticipate closing the acquisition in mid-2019, assuming receipt of required antitrust approvals. if the acquisition is not completed within the expected time frame, such delay could result in additional transaction costs, termination fees, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the acquisition. a delay in the acquisition could adversely affect our ability to obtain the benefits we expect from the acquisition and a failure to close the acquisition would deny us those expected benefits entirely. we face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. we compete with third-parties that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide range of technologies. in some cases, we compete for the resources our customers allocate for purchasing a wide range of products used to analyze genetic variation and biological function, some of which are complementary or adjacent to our own but not directly competitive; in other cases, our products face direct competition as customers choose among products that are designed to address similar applications or needs. we anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. one or more of our competitors may render one or more of our technologies obsolete or uneconomical. some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, more focused product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do. furthermore, life sciences, clinical genomics, and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products. we believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. to the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. the market for clinical and diagnostic products, in particular, is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise. for example, the market for noninvasive prenatal testing is rapidly developing, and if our competitors are able to develop and commercialize products superior to or less expensive than ours, our business could be adversely impacted. established clinical and diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products. in addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests, potentially creating a competitive advantage for them. if defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. defects or errors in our products may discourage customers from purchasing our products. the costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise, and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. if we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify 13 table of contents applicable regulatory authorities about a recall. if our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. as we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market. physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, sell, or enable such as our prenatal tests, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid and governmental payors outside of the united states, pay a substantial portion of the test price. third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices. reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: not experimental or investigational; medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient; cost-effective; supported by peer-reviewed publications; and included in clinical practice guidelines. since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products. as a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained. this process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell. this could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations. even if our tests are being reimbursed, third-party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues. in addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as medicare and medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services. these measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry. reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future. reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations. litigation, other proceedings, or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. as we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition. in addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. we could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself. furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. in the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties or be prohibited from selling certain products or services. in addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. we could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share. in 14 table of contents addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability. reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue. the timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide. funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries. government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority. these budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the u.s. national institute of health, or nih. past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced nih and other research and development allocations. any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and assumption of, or exposure to, known or unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify. in addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. there can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. 15 table of contents if we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all. we continue to increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner. for example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products. as a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products. due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain dna and enzymes, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), or prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. an interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business. we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. our manufacturing facilities are located in san diego and the san francisco bay area in california; madison, wisconsin; and singapore. these areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. if a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products. in addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products. many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (lims). additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. if either our lims system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis could be adversely impacted and we could be prevented from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. if we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. our future success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and scientific and engineering personnel. the loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. in addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, software, engineering, sales, marketing, and technical support. we compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science and technology companies, universities, and research institutions. competition for these individuals, particularly in the san diego and san francisco areas, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. moreover, changes in immigration policies, laws and regulations in the united states or other jurisdictions may make it more difficult for us to hire and retain members of management and scientific and engineering personnel. failure to attract and retain management and scientific and engineering personnel could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units, to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with ours by building long-term stockholder value. if our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and, therefore, reduces a key employee's incentive to stay. any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. the proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain 16 table of contents patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the united states and other countries. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the united states. these challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the united states. we will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue. in addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. we may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third-party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. there is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. in that regard, certain patent applications in the united states may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months. we also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information. these measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. our strategic investments and joint ventures may result in losses. we periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business. in addition, we periodically form companies, such as helix, that remain consolidated within our financial statements but receive substantial funding from third-party investors who are granted certain control and governance rights. the market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment. this could result in future charges to our earnings. it is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments. security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information, products, and services, disrupt our operations, and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information (and that of our customers), and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. as a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services, including instruments at our customers' sites; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal operations, systems and services. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disruption, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in an adverse impact on our business, legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation. 17 table of contents our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome. our products are not subject to fda clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of disease. however, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our fda-regulated miseqdx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the fda, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. in addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain fda or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required. diagnostic products are regulated as medical devices by the fda and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the fda following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or pre-market approval from the fda, in each case prior to marketing. obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay. if we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, if our products labeled as for research use only. not for use in diagnostic procedures, or ruo, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could change or be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent. if the fda or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our ruo products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if the fda requires in the future that any of our ldt products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the clinical laboratory improvements amendments (clia) of 1988. these products are commonly called laboratory developed tests, or ldts. for a number of years, the fda has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion not to regulate ldts as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. however, the fda has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of ldts may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing ldts. in october 2014, the fda published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of ldts by the fda based on risk to patients rather than whether the ldts were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory. the draft framework guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk ldts, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as ldts. we cannot predict the nature or extent of the fda's final guidance or regulation of ldts, in general, or with respect to our ldts, in particular. if the fda requires in the future that ldt products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. if product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications. product liability claims filed against us or against third parties to whom we may have an obligation could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages or reputational risk. we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in: decreased demand for our products; injury to our reputation; increased product liability insurance costs; 18 table of contents costs of related litigation; and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. doing business internationally, especially in emerging markets, creates operational risk for our business. conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and consumes significant management resources. if we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. we have sales offices located internationally throughout europe, the asia-pacific region, and brazil, as well as manufacturing and research facilities in singapore and the united kingdom. shipments to customers outside the united states comprised 47% , 45% , and 46% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. we are subject to the following risks and challenges associated with conducting business in foreign jurisdictions, particularly emerging international markets, where we expect a growing proportion of our business to be located: longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the united states; longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; lack of consistency, and unexpected changes, in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products; increased risk of governmental and regulatory scrutiny and investigations; the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, regulations, and legal standards; operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; import and export requirements, tariffs, taxes, and other trade barriers; weak or no protection of intellectual property rights; possible enactment of laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks and websites; possible future limitations on foreign-owned businesses; significant taxes; and other factors beyond our control, including political, social and economic instability, and security concerns in general. additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, anti-competition regulations and sanctions imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control and other similar laws and regulations. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. as we continue to expand our business into multiple international markets, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these 19 table of contents risks could harm our international operations and negatively impact our sales, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. we are exposed to risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign currency. during 2018 , a significant portion of our international sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in u.s. dollars. changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able to sell products in the same market. our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the u.s. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if, in order to continue doing business with us, they raise their prices as the value of the u.s. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the united states and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. significant developments stemming from the u.s. administration or the u.k.'s referendum on membership in the eu could have an adverse effect on us. the u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements and is imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the united states. changes in u.s. or foreign political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the territories and countries where we or our customers operate could adversely affect our operating results and our business. the prospect of such changes has already affected, and may continue to affect, the timing of customer purchases. additionally, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the european union, or eu. this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the eu, and this uncertainty may last for years. our business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the united kingdom's referendum. in addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the united kingdom. these possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the united kingdom's actual or threatened withdrawal from the eu, may adversely affect our operating results and our customers' businesses. we are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax policies, laws, regulations, or rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), location of operations, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the u.s. internal revenue service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. 20 table of contents our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability. our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. while we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. this is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter. in light of that, our manufacturing and shipping operations may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter; delays related to our manufacturing and shipping operations during this time period could delay the recognition of revenue. a large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. to meet the anticipated growth in our business, we may incur fixed expenses, such as costs related to facility expansions, before we generate revenue sufficient to fully support such expenses. in addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars to support our anticipated growth. accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. in addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. if our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. from time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. the timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period-to-period changes in net sales. as a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter-to-quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. we may not be able to convert our order backlog into revenue. our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance sheet date. however, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products. we may not receive revenue from some of these orders, and the order backlog we report may not be indicative of our future revenue. many events can cause an order to be delayed or not completed at all, some of which may be out of our control. if we delay fulfilling customer orders, or if customers reconsider their orders, those customers may seek to cancel or modify their orders with us. customers may otherwise seek to cancel or delay their orders even if we are prepared to fulfill them. if our orders in backlog do not result in sales, our operating results may suffer. disruption of critical information technology systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could have an adverse effect on our operations, business, customer relations, and financial condition. information technology (it) systems help us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our consolidated financial statements. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including product manufacturing and supply chain, sales forecast, order fulfillment and billing, customer service, logistics, and management of financial reports and data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, power loss, natural disasters, human acts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems. certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, disruption of our operations, which could harm our reputation and financial results. 21 table of contents if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper it infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. as we continuously adjust our work-flow and business practices and add additional functionality to our enterprise resource planning software and other software applications, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner. in addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins. as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. in particular, accounting rules related to companies that we form together with, or that receive substantial funding from, third-party investors, such as helix, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services. our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms. the information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests, even if permissible. these and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses. as of december 30, 2018 , we had $633 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, $517 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021, and $750 million aggregate principle amount of convertible notes due 2023 outstanding. the notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate. the net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021, and 3.7% with respect to convertible notes due 2023. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. 22 table of contents our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us. our certificate of incorporation has provisions that give our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. the issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. in addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control. in addition, certain provisions of the delaware general corporation law (dgcl), including section 203 of the dgcl, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina. section 203 of the dgcl provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company. the above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate sensitivity our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. the fair market value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. we attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. we mitigate default risk by investing in investment-grade securities. we have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest-sensitive financial instruments. 39 table of contents changes in interest rates may impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. in june 2014, we issued $633 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 notes) and $517 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 notes). in august 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2023 (2023 notes). at our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. if the trading price of our common stock reaches a price at 130% above the conversion price, the notes become convertible. upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. the fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. if our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. the implicit interest rates for the 2019, 2021, and 2023 notes were 2.9% , 3.5% , and 3.7% , respectively. an incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2019, 2021, and 2023 notes would result in losses of approximately $1 million , $2 million , and $4 million , respectively. foreign currency exchange risk we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than our u.s. dollar functional currency. these transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, japanese yen, australian dollar, and canadian dollar. both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. we use forward exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risks related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. these contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. as of december 30, 2018 , the total notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $122 million . 40 table of contents