risk factors 17 cautionary factors that may affect future results 27 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2013 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $339 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2013 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 12,300 people are employed in the company's research activities. research and development expenses were $7.5 billion in 2013, $8.2 billion in 2012, and $8.5 billion in 2011 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $279 million, $200 million and $587 million of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively). the company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focus on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers, with an increased emphasis on externally sourced programs. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. further, merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through a collaboration on the development of biosimilars, which have the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality biosimilars to enhance access for patients worldwide. the company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. the company is evaluating certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. in january 2014, the company entered into an agreement to divest its sirna therapeutics, inc. subsidiary and related rnai technology assets. the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women's health. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application ( nda ) for a drug or the biologics license application ( bla ) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. 10 table of contents if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v, the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a crl stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced review staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and 11 table of contents products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application ( maa ) with the european medicines agency ( ema ). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the pharmaceutical medical devices agency in japan, health canada, agencia nacional de vigilancia in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, and therapeutic goods administration in australia. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states or internationally. mk-5348, vorapaxar, is an investigational anti-thrombotic medicine under review by the fda and ema. merck is seeking approval of vorapaxar for the reduction of atherothrombotic events, when added to standard of care, in patients with a history of heart attack and no history of stroke or transient ischemic attack. in january 2014, the fda's cardiovascular and renal drugs advisory committee recommended approval of vorapaxar. the fda is not bound by the committee's guidance, but takes its advice into consideration when reviewing investigational medicines. v503, the company's nine-valent hpv vaccine in development to help protect against certain hpv-related diseases, is under review by the fda. v503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing hpv types as compared with gardasil . the company anticipates submitting an maa to the ema in the first half of 2014. mk-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment under review by the fda for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. if approved, corifollitropin alfa would be the first sustained follicular stimulant for use in a fertility treatment regimen in the united states. merck's corifollitropin alfa is currently approved in more than 50 markets outside the united states, including the eu. mk-7243, grastek (timothy grass pollen allergen extract), an investigational timothy grass pollen allergy immunotherapy tablet ( ait ), and mk-3641, ragwitek (short ragweed pollen allergen extract), an investigational ragweed pollen ait, are both under review by the fda. grastek is the proposed trade name for mk-7243 and ragwitek is the proposed trade name for mk-3641. mk-7243 and mk-3641 are investigational sublingual tablets designed to help treat the underlying cause of allergic rhinitis by generating an immune response to help protect allergic patients against effects triggered by the targeted allergen. merck has partnered with alk-abello to develop its investigational sublingual allergy immunotherapy tablets for timothy grass pollen, ragweed pollen and house dust mites in north america. in december 2013, the fda's allergenic products advisory committee had a positive discussion of mk-7243. in january 2014, the same advisory committee had a positive discussion of mk-3641. the fda is not bound by the committee's guidance, but takes its advice into consideration when reviewing investigational medicines. merck expects the fda's review for both mk-7243 and mk-3641 to be completed in the first half of 2014. in february 2014, the company announced that grastek received regulatory approval in canada. mk-4305, suvorexant, is an investigational insomnia medicine in a new class of medicines called orexin receptor antagonists for use in patients with difficulty falling or staying asleep. in july 2013, the company announced that it had received a crl from the fda regarding the nda for suvorexant. in the crl, the fda advised merck that: (1) the efficacy of suvorexant has been established at doses of 10 mg to 40 mg in elderly and non-elderly adult patients; (2) 10 mg should be the starting dose for most patients and must be available before suvorexant can be approved; (3) 15 mg and 20 mg doses would be appropriate in patients in whom the 10 mg dose is well-tolerated but not effective; and (4), for patients taking concomitant moderate cyp3a4 inhibitors, a 5 mg dose would be necessary. in addition, the fda determined that the safety data do not support the approval of suvorexant 30 mg and 40 mg. in february 2014, the company resubmitted its nda to the fda. as previously disclosed, both fda approval and a separate scheduling 12 table of contents determination by the u.s. drug enforcement administration are required before merck can introduce suvorexant in the united states. insomnia is a condition characterized by difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep. the company has submitted a new drug application for suvorexant to the health authorities in japan and is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other countries around the world. mk-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents). neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. in september 2013, merck announced that it had received a crl from the fda for the resubmission of the nda for sugammadex sodium injection. the fda's letter raised concerns about operational aspects of a hypersensitivity study that the agency had requested in 2008. to address the crl, the company is conducting a hypersensitivity study and anticipates filing an nda resubmission with the fda in 2014. sugammadex sodium injection is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the united states where it is marketed as bridion . mk-8109, vintafolide, is an investigational cancer candidate under review by the ema. as part of an exclusive license agreement with endocyte, inc. ( endocyte ), merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of vintafolide in oncology. the ema accepted the maa filings for vintafolide and endocyte's investigational companion diagnostic imaging agent, etarfolatide, for the targeted treatment of patients with folate-receptor positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. both vintafolide and etarfolatide have been granted orphan drug status by the ec. vintafolide is in phase 3 development in the united states. mk-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus ( hcv ) infection under review in japan. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has 12 drug candidates in phase 3 development targeting a broad range of diseases. the company anticipates filing an nda or a bla, as applicable, with the fda with respect to several of these candidates in 2014. mk-3475, an investigational anti-pd-1 immunotherapy, is currently being evaluated for the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma and other tumor types. in january 2014, the company announced it has started a rolling submission to the fda of a bla for mk-3475 for patients with advanced melanoma who have previously been treated with ipilimumab. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the company expects to complete the application in the first half of 2014. in april 2013, merck announced that mk-3475 received a breakthrough therapy designation for advanced melanoma from the fda. as noted above, the designation of an investigational drug as a breakthrough therapy is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. the mk-3475 clinical development program also includes studies across a broad range of cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, non-small cell lung, renal, triple negative breast and hematological malignancies. in addition, the company has announced four collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies to evaluate novel combination regimens with mk-3475. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. in july 2012, merck announced an update on the phase 3 trial assessing fracture risk reduction with odanacatib. the independent data monitoring committee (the dmc ) for the study completed its first planned interim analysis for efficacy and recommended that the study be closed early due to robust efficacy and a favorable benefit-risk profile. the dmc noted that safety issues remain in certain selected areas and made recommendations with respect to following up on them. on february 1, 2013, merck announced that it had recently received and was reviewing safety and efficacy data from the phase 3 trial. as a result of its review of this data, the company concluded that review of additional data from the previously planned, ongoing extension study was warranted and that filing an application for approval with the fda 13 table of contents should be delayed. as previously announced, the company is conducting a blinded extension of the trial in approximately 8,200 women, which will provide additional safety and efficacy data. merck continues to anticipate that it will file applications for approval of odanacatib in 2014 with additional data from the extension trial. the company continues to believe that odanacatib will have the potential to address unmet medical needs in patients with osteoporosis. v419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help protect against six potentially serious diseases diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough ( bordetella pertussis ), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b, and hepatitis b that is being developed in collaboration with sanofi-pasteur. the company continues to anticipate filing a bla for v419 with the fda in 2014. mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( cetp ) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise hdl-c and reduce ldl-c. anacetrapib is being evaluated in a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial reveal (randomized evaluation of the effects of anacetrapib through lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017. mk-8931 is merck's novel investigational oral -amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme ( bace ) inhibitor for the treatment of alzheimer's disease being evaluated in a phase 2/3 clinical trial (epoch) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mk-8931 versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate alzheimer's disease. based on a positive dmc recommendation made following a planned analysis of interim safety data that included a safety cohort of 200 patients treated with mk-8931 for at least three months, the company recently began enrolling patients in the phase 3 portion of the trial, as well as a new phase 3 trial (apecs) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mk-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to alzheimer's disease, also known as prodromal alzheimer's disease. mk-3415a, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the prevention of clostridium difficile infection recurrence, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. mk-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly dipeptidyl peptidase-4 ( dpp-4 ) inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. mk-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter ( sglt2 ) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. during 2013, the company entered into a worldwide (except japan) collaboration agreement with pfizer inc. for the development and commercialization of ertugliflozin. mk-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. in february 2014, the company announced that it had expanded its collaboration with samsung bioepis to develop, manufacture and commercialize mk-1293. under the terms of the agreement, the companies will collaborate on clinical development, regulatory filings and manufacturing. if approved, merck will commercialize this candidate. v212 is an inactivated vzv vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company is conducting two phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. mk-3222, tildrakizumab, is an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody candidate being investigated for the treatment of psoriasis. mk-5172/mk-8742, an all-oral combination regimen in phase 2 development consisting of mk-5172, an investigational hcv ns3/4a protease inhibitor, and mk-8742, an investigational hcv ns5a replication complex inhibitor, was granted a breakthrough therapy designation in october 2013 by the fda for treatment of chronic hcv infection. mk-5172 and mk-8742 are being investigated in a broad clinical program that includes studies in patients with multiple hcv genotypes who are treatment-na ve, treatment failures as well as other important hcv subpopulations such as patients with cirrhosis and those co-infected with hiv. mk-8175a, nomac/e2, which is being marketed as zoely in the eu, is an investigational oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. in november 2011, merck received a crl from the fda for nomac/e2. merck has made the decision to discontinue the phase 3 clinical trial for nomac/e2 being conducted in the united states. this decision is not based on any new safety or efficacy findings. 14 table of contents in may 2013, the company provided an update on the clinical program for preladenant, merck's investigational adenosine a2a receptor antagonist for the treatment of parkinson's disease. an initial review of data from three separate phase 3 trials did not provide evidence of efficacy for preladenant compared with placebo. based on these results, merck has taken steps to discontinue the extension phases of these studies and no longer plans to pursue regulatory filings for preladenant. the decision to discontinue these studies was not based on any safety finding. the company recorded an impairment charge of $181 million in 2013 related to the discontinuation of the clinical development program for preladenant. the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 21, 2014. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review allergy mk-8237, immunotherapy (1) alzheimer's disease mk-7622 asthma mk-1029 bacterial infection mk-7655 cancer mk-0646 (dalotuzumab) mk-2206 cmv prophylaxis in transplant patients mk-8228 (letermovir) contraception, medicated ius mk-8342 contraception, next generation ring mk-8175a mk-8342b hepatitis c mk-5172 mk-8742 hiv mk-1439 (doravirine) non-small cell lung cancer mk-3475 (2,3) pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 rheumatoid arthritis mk-8457 atherosclerosis mk-0859 (anacetrapib) (may 2008) alzheimer's disease mk-8931 (december 2013) clostridium difficile infection mk-3415a (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab) (november 2011) diabetes mellitus mk-3102 (omarigliptin) (september 2012) mk-8835 (ertugliflozin) (november 2013) mk-1293 (february 2014) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) melanoma mk-3475 (august 2013) (2,4) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) (september 2007) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (april 2011) platinum-resistant ovarian cancer mk-8109 (vintafolide) (u.s.) (april 2011) psoriasis mk-3222 (tildrakizumab) (december 2012) allergy mk-7243, grass pollen (u.s.) (1) mk-3641, ragweed (u.s.) (1) fertility mk-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (u.s.) hepatitis c mk-7009 (vaniprevir) (japan) hpv-related cancers v503 (hpv vaccine (9 valent)) (u.s.) insomnia mk-4305 (suvorexant) (u.s.) (5) neuromuscular blockade reversal mk-8616 (sugammadex sodium injection) (u.s.) (6) platinum-resistant ovarian cancer mk-8109 (vintafolide) (eu) thrombosis mk-5348 (vorapaxar) (u.s./eu) footnotes: (1) north american rights only. (2) a new nonproprietary name for mk-3475 is under review. (3) phase 2/3 adaptive design. (4) in january 2014, the company announced it has started a rolling submission to the fda of a bla for mk-3475 for patients with advanced melanoma who have previously been treated with ipilimumab. (5) in june 2013, merck received a crl from the fda for suvorexant (mk-4305). in february 2014, the company resubmitted its nda to the fda. (6) in september 2013, merck received a crl from the fda for the resubmission of the nda for sugammadex sodium injection (mk-8616). to address the crl, the company is conducting a hypersensitivity study and anticipates filing an nda resubmission with the fda in 2014. . employees as of december 31, 2013, the company had approximately 76,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 29,100 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 32% of worldwide 15 table of contents employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. in addition, the company's joint ventures in china and brazil, which are included in the consolidated results of merck, had about 1,300 employees. 2013 restructuring program in october 2013, the company announced a new global restructuring program (the 2013 restructuring program ) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. as part of the new program, the company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. these workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. the company will also reduce its global real estate footprint and continue to improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. the company will continue to hire employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. merger restructuring program in 2010, subsequent to the merck and schering-plough merger (the merger ), the company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the merger restructuring program ) designed to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. the actions under this program primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. since inception of the merger restructuring program through december 31, 2013, merck has eliminated approximately 26,880 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. approximately 6,300 position eliminations remain pending under this program and an older program as of december 31, 2013. the restructuring actions under the merger restructuring program were substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related. subsequent to the merger, the company has rationalized a number of manufacturing sites worldwide. the remaining actions under this program will result in additional manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $20 million in 2013, $14 million in 2012 and $25 million in 2011, and are estimated at $117 million in the aggregate for the years 2014 through 2018. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $213 million at december 31, 2013. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $84 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states were 59% of sales in 2013, 57% of sales in 2012 and 57% of sales in 2011. the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion 16 table of contents of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company's business is provided in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company's marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other 17 table of contents companies' u.s. patents, potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for the company's major marketed products is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the patent that provides market exclusivity in the eu for nasonex expired on january 1, 2014 and the company anticipates that sales will decline significantly. also, a court has ruled that a proposed generic form of nasonex , made by apotex, a generic manufacturer, does not infringe the company's u.s. patent for nasonex . if apotex receives approval to market in the united states its generic form of nasonex, the company will experience a loss of nasonex sales. in addition, in september 2013, the ec approved a biosimilar for remicade . while the company is experiencing generic competition in certain smaller european markets, the company anticipates a more substantial decline in remicade sales following loss of market exclusivity in major european markets in february 2015. key company products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as januvia , zetia, remicade , gardasil, janumet, isentress, vytorin, and nasonex . as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-market trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. if any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may 18 table of contents take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the fda for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions. the company is devoting substantial resources to the development of mk-3475, merck's anti-pd-1 immunotherapy, and there can be no assurance that it will be approved for marketing by the fda. on january 13, 2014, the company announced that it had initiated a rolling submission to the fda of a bla for mk-3475, the company's anti-pd-1 immunotherapy, for patients with advanced melanoma who have been previously treated with ipilimumab. the company also stated that it expected to complete the submission in the first half of 2014. there can be no assurance that the company will complete the submission, or that the fda will approve mk-3475 for marketing and sale in the united states for the initial indication or for additional indications. in addition, if approved, there can be no assurance that mk-3475 will succeed in the marketplace. the company's products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities 19 table of contents in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase 4 trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan's pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower cost-generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is 20 table of contents significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions, such as the company's portfolio products marketed for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c or vytorin or zetia , experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, the company faces the risk of litigation with the government over its pricing calculations. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu and japan, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, major health care reform was adopted into law and important market reforms have begun and will continue through full implementation in 2014. the new law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million americans by the end of the decade. in 2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the medicaid program increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the company's branded prescription drugs; the medicaid rebate was extended to medicaid managed care organizations; and eligibility for the federal 340b drug discount program was 21 table of contents extended to rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain additional children's hospitals. in addition, the law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, the company is required to pay an annual health care reform fee, which is assessed on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. the fee is calculated based on the industry's total sales of branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. the percentage of a manufacturer's sales that are included is determined by a tiered scale based on the manufacturer's individual revenues. each manufacturer's portion of the total annual fee is based on the manufacturer's proportion of the total includable sales in the prior year. the annual industry fee for 2013 was $2.8 billion and will be $3.0 billion in 2014. the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. the uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the company's revenue performance in 2013. the company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in japan, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2014. the company continues to monitor the credit and economic conditions within greece, spain, italy and portugal, among other members of the eu. these economic conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries and may also impact the likelihood of collecting 100% of outstanding accounts receivable. as of december 31, 2013, the company's accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal totaled approximately $900 million. of this amount, hospital and public sector receivables were approximately $600 million in the aggregate, of which approximately 9%, 41%, 40% and 10% related to greece, italy, spain and portugal, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, the company's total accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year were approximately $200 million, of which approximately 50% related to accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal, mostly comprised of hospital and public sector receivables. if credit and economic conditions in europe worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company's results of operations. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; 22 table of contents diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. the company is evaluating the strategic options for its merck consumer care and animal health businesses, however, there can be no assurance that any transactions will occur. on january 13, 2014, the company announced that it was evaluating the respective roles of merck's animal health and consumer care businesses in the company's strategy for long-term value creation. furthermore, the company stated that it expects to complete the evaluation process and take action, if any, in 2014. the company could reach different decisions about the two businesses. there can be no assurance that the company will determine to take action with respect to either business or that it will be able to effectuate any action it determines to take. the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. the company faces significant litigation related to vioxx . on september 30, 2004, merck voluntarily withdrew vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. although merck has settled the major portion of the u.s. product liability litigation, the company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of vioxx . in addition to the vioxx product liability lawsuits and lawsuits from certain states that did not participate in a previously-disclosed settlement, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought against merck and several current and former officers and directors of merck alleging that merck made false and misleading statements regarding vioxx in violation of the federal securities laws and state laws (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx securities lawsuits ). the vioxx securities lawsuits have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation to the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey before district judge stanley r. chesler for inclusion in a nationwide multidistrict litigation, and have been consolidated for all purposes. merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the united states. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx international lawsuits .) the vioxx litigation is discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. the company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, vioxx securities lawsuits and vioxx international lawsuits (collectively, the vioxx litigation ) and will vigorously defend against them. the company's insurance coverage with respect to the vioxx litigation will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses. the company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the vioxx litigation. these proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the remaining vioxx litigation. the company has not established any material reserves for any potential liability relating to the remaining vioxx litigation although it has established reserves related 23 table of contents to the settlement of certain vioxx international lawsuits and with respect to certain other vioxx product liability lawsuits, all of which are discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. unfavorable outcomes in the vioxx litigation resulting in the payment of substantial damages could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. issues concerning vytorin and the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia in the united states and results from the improve-it trial could have a material adverse effect on such sales. the company sells vytorin and zetia. as previously disclosed, in january 2008, the company announced the results of the enhance clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of ldl bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. as previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( vytorin ) significantly lowered ldl bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. in january 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of enhance. the fda stated that the results from enhance did not change its position that elevated ldl cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering ldl cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. the improve-it trial, which is currently underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome, is scheduled for completion later in 2014. no incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. in the improve-it trial, blinded interim efficacy analyses were conducted by the data safety monitoring board ( dsmb ) for the trial when approximately 50% and 75% of the endpoints were accrued, respectively. in each case, the dsmb recommended continuing the trial without change in design. the dsmb completed another planned interim review of the study data in march 2013 and again recommended that the study continue. the issues concerning the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia and could continue to have an adverse effect on such sales. if the results of the improve-it trial fail to demonstrate an incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin, sales of zetia and vytorin could be materially adversely affected. if sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected and the company could be required to record a material non-cash impairment charge. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its presence in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. for instance, in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency. as a result of that devaluation, the company recognized losses due to exchange. if the venezuelan government were to devalue its currency again in 2014, the company would recognize additional losses due to exchange and the company expects that the impact would be greater than in 2013. in addition, in 2013 in china, governmental investigations involving other multinational pharmaceutical companies and domestic health care companies and medical institutes adversely affected the company's near term growth prospects in that market. while the company continues to believe that china represents an important growth 24 table of contents opportunity, these events, coupled with heightened scrutiny of the health care industry, may continue to have an impact on product pricing and market access generally. the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to continue to expand the company's business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company's operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows as occurred in venezuela in 2013. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in april 2013, president obama's administration re-proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on excess returns attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. other potentially significant changes to the u.s. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system and taxing currently the accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings of controlled foreign corporations, have been set out by various congressional committees. the company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company's business. all aspects of the company's business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 25 table of contents reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the size and complexity of the company's computer systems makes them potentially vulnerable to service interruption, malicious intrusion and random attacks. in addition, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that data, including intellectual property or personal information, may be exposed to unauthorized individuals or to the public. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and systems will prevent service interruption or the loss of critical or sensitive information which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. in 2013, the company voluntarily suspended sales of zilmax , an animal feed supplement, in the united states and canada after concerns were raised about cattle that had been fed zilmax . the suspension materially reduced the sales of zilmax . the company can give no assurances as to when sales of zilmax in the united states and canada will resume. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing 26 table of contents procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability 27 table of contents to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant litigation related to vioxx and fosamax. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 18 cautionary factors that may affect future results 28 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2014 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $274 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.1 billion in 2014 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 11,400 people are employed in the company's research activities. research and development expenses were $7.2 billion in 2014, $7.5 billion in 2013 and $8.2 billion in 2012 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition-related costs in all years). the company 10 table of contents prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. further, merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through a collaboration on the development of biosimilars, which have the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality biosimilars to enhance access for patients worldwide. the company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. the company is evaluating certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. in 2014, the company entered into an agreement to divest its sirna therapeutics, inc. subsidiary and related rnai technology assets and out-licensed an investigational therapeutic antibody candidate to sun pharmaceutical industries ltd. ( sun pharma ). the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women's health. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application ( nda ) for a drug or the biologics license application ( bla ) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical 11 table of contents trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v, the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a complete response letter ( crl ) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced review staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. in addition, under the generating antibiotic incentives now act, the fda may grant qualified infectious disease product ( qidp ) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. qidp designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including priority review of the nda when filed, eligibility for fast track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the food, drug and cosmetic act. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application ( maa ) with the european medicines agency ( ema ). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the pharmaceutical medical devices agency in japan, health canada, agencia 12 table of contents nacional de vigilancia in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, and therapeutic goods administration in australia. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states or internationally. keytruda is an anti-pd-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy under review by the ema for the treatment of advanced melanoma. in september 2014, the fda approved keytruda at a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if braf v600 mutation positive, a braf inhibitor. keytruda is the first anti-pd-1 therapy approved in the united states. the keytruda clinical development program also includes studies in more than 30 cancers including: bladder, colorectal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, non-small-cell lung, renal, triple negative breast and hematological malignancies. in addition, the company has announced a number of collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies to evaluate novel combination regimens with keytruda . in october 2014, keytruda was granted breakthrough therapy designation by the fda for the treatment of patients with epidermal growth factor receptor mutation-negative, and anaplastic lymphoma kinase rearrangement-negative non-small-cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed on or following platinum-based chemotherapy. the company anticipates submitting a supplemental bla to the fda in mid-2015 for keytruda . mk-8616, bridion (sugammadex) injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents). neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. in september 2013, merck announced that it had received a crl from the fda for the resubmission of the nda for bridion . to address the crl, the company conducted a new hypersensitivity study and, in october 2014, resubmitted the nda to the fda. the company anticipates an fda advisory committee meeting will be held on march 18, 2015 to review bridion . if approved, the company expects to launch bridion in the united states later in 2015. bridion is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the united states. v419, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, is an investigational pediatric hexavalent vaccine that the company is developing in partnership with sanofi pasteur under review by the fda and the ema. if approved,v419 would be the first pediatric combination vaccine in the united states designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b (hib), and hepatitis b. if approved, v419 will be co-promoted in the united states via a partnership with sanofi pasteur and marketed via the spmsd joint venture in europe. mk-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly dipeptidyl peptidase-4 ( dpp-4 ) inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. in november 2014, merck announced that the company has submitted a new drug application for omarigliptin to the japanese pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency. omarigliptin is in phase 3 clinical development in the united states. mk-1986, sivextro (tedizolid phosphate), a once-daily oxazolidinone antibiotic developed for both intravenous and oral administration for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structuring infections ( absssi ) caused by certain gram-positive organisms, is under review by the ema. in january 2015, merck announced that the committee for medicinal products for human use (the chmp ) of the ema has adopted a positive opinion recommending approval of sivextro for the treatment of absssi in adults. merck acquired sivextro as a part of its purchase of cubist. if the ec affirms the chmp opinion, it will grant a centralized marketing authorization with unified labeling that is valid in the 28 countries that are members of the eu, as well as european economic area members, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. sivextro is approved in the united states and is indicated for the treatment of adults with absssi caused by designated susceptible gram-positive organisms. the company is conducting a phase 3 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of sivextro in adult patients with ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia ( vabp ) and ventilated hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia ( ventilated habp ). in 2013, the fda designated sivextro as a qidp for its now approved indication in absssi, as well as for 13 table of contents its potential indication in ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including vabp and ventilated habp, in each of the i.v. and oral dosage forms. mk-7625a, zerbaxa , a combination product for the treatment of certain serious bacterial infections in adults, is under review by the ema. merck acquired zerbaxa as a part of its purchase of cubist. in december 2014, zerbaxa was approved by the fda for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract infections caused by designated susceptible gram-negative organisms or with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by designated susceptible gram-negative and gram-positive organisms. the company is conducting a phase 3 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of zerbaxa in adult patients with ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including vabp and ventilated habp. the fda designated zerbaxa as a qidp for its now approved indications as well as for its potential indication in ventilated nosocomial pneumonia, including vabp and ventilated habp. v503, gardasil 9, the company's nine-valent hpv vaccine that helps protect against certain hpv-related diseases, is under review by the ema. v503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing hpv types as compared with gardasil . gardasil 9 was approved by the fda in december 2014. mk-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment under review by the fda for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. in july 2014, merck received a crl from the fda for its nda for corifollitropin alfa injection. merck is reviewing its options with respect to this drug candidate in response to the crl. corifollitropin alfa injection is marketed as elonva in certain markets outside of the united states. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has several drug candidates in phase 3 development. the company anticipates filing an nda or a bla, as applicable, with the fda with respect to certain of these candidates in 2015. mk-5172a, a once daily, fixed-dose, combination, chronic hcv treatment regimen consisting of mk-5172, grazoprevir, an investigational hcv ns3/4a protease inhibitor, and mk-8742, elbasvir, an investigational hcv ns5a replication complex inhibitor, began phase 3 clinical trials in june 2014. mk-5172a is being investigated in a broad clinical program that includes studies in patients with multiple hcv genotypes who are treatment-na ve, treatment failures, or who fit into other important hcv subpopulations such as patients with cirrhosis and those co-infected with hiv. the company expects to file an nda with the fda in the first half of 2015 for mk-5172a. on january 30, 2015, the company received notification from the fda of its intent to rescind breakthrough therapy designation status for this combination treatment regimen, citing the availability of other recently approved treatments for genotype 1 patients. the company is discussing this matter with the fda and does not expect that it will impact its ability to file an nda for this combination regimen or the timing of that filing. the company has started the phase 2 c-crest studies to study combination regimens of grazoprevir and mk-3682 (formerly idx21437) with either elbasvir or mk-8408 for the treatment of hcv infection. the company expects to begin phase 3 studies in 2015. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. in september 2014, merck announced data from the pivotal phase 3 fracture outcomes study for odanacatib in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. in the long-term odanacatib fracture trial (loft), odanacatib met its primary endpoints and significantly reduced the risk of three types of osteoporotic fractures (radiographically-assessed vertebral, clinical hip, and clinical non-vertebral) compared to placebo and also reduced the risk of the secondary endpoint of clinical vertebral fractures. in addition, treatment with odanacatib led to progressive increases over five years in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and total hip. the rates of adverse events overall in loft were generally balanced between patients taking odanacatib and placebo. adjudicated events of morphea-like skin lesions and atypical femoral fractures occurred more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events were generally balanced overall between the treatment groups. there were numerically more adjudicated stroke events with odanacatib than with placebo. adjudicated atrial fibrillation was reported more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. a numeric imbalance in mortality was observed; this numeric difference does not appear to be related 14 table of contents to a particular reported cause or causes of death. merck continues to collect data from the blinded extension study and is planning additional analyses of data from the trial, including an independent re-adjudication of major adverse cardiovascular events, in support of regulatory submissions. merck plans to submit an nda to the fda for odanacatib in 2015. merck also plans to submit applications to the ema and the ministry of health, labour, and welfare in japan. mk-8237 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy. in 2014, the fda approved grastek , a timothy grass pollen allergen extract sublingual immunotherapy tablet, and ragwitek , a short ragweed pollen allergen extract sublingual immunotherapy tablet. both grastek and ragwitek , as well as the ongoing program for mk-8237, are part of a north america partnership between merck and alk-abello. mk-8931 is merck's novel investigational oral -amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme ( bace ) inhibitor for the treatment of alzheimer's disease being studied in a phase 3 trial (apecs) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mk-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to alzheimer's disease, also known as prodromal alzheimer's disease. mk-8931 is also being studied in another phase 3 trial versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate alzheimer's disease (epoch). mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( cetp ) in development for raising hdl-c and reducing ldl-c. anacetrapib is being evaluated in a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial, reveal (randomized evaluation of the effects of anacetrapib through lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017. mk-3415a, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the prevention of clostridium difficile infection recurrence, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. mk-4261, surotomycin, is an investigational oral antibiotic in development for the treatment of clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. merck acquired surotomycin as part of its purchase of cubist. the fda has designated surotomycin as a qidp. mk-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral, once-daily antiviral candidate for the prevention and treatment of human cytomegalovirus infection. letermovir has received orphan drug status in the eu and in the united states, where it has also been granted fast track designation. mk-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 ( sglt2 ) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with pfizer inc. mk-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. in february 2014, the company announced that it had expanded its collaboration with samsung bioepis to develop, manufacture and commercialize mk-1293. under the terms of the agreement, the companies will collaborate on clinical development, regulatory filings and manufacturing. if approved, merck will commercialize this candidate. v212 is an inactivated vzv vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company is conducting two phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. mk-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, once-daily oral next-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by merck for the treatment of hiv-1 infection. mk-2402, bevenopran, is an oral investigational therapy in development as a potential treatment for opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. merck acquired bevenopran as a part of its purchase of cubist. in september 2014, merck and sun pharma entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing agreement for merck's investigational therapeutic antibody candidate, mk-3222, tildrakizumab, for the treatment of chronic plaque psoriasis, a skin ailment. under terms of the agreement, sun pharma acquired worldwide rights to tildrakizumab for use in all human indications from merck in exchange for an upfront payment of $80 million. merck will continue all clinical development and regulatory activities, which will be funded by sun pharma. upon product approval, sun pharma will be responsible for regulatory activities, including subsequent submissions, pharmacovigilance, post approval studies, manufacturing and commercialization of the approved product. merck is also eligible to receive future payments associated with regulatory (including product approval) and sales milestones, as well as tiered royalties ranging from mid-single digit through teen percentage rates on sales. 15 table of contents in may 2014, merck and endocyte, inc. ( endocyte ) (the company's collaboration partner) announced the withdrawal of the conditional maa from the ema for vintafolide for the treatment of adult patients with folate receptor-positive, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin ( pld ). the companies' decision was based on review of interim data from the proceed trial. the proceed trial has been terminated based on the data safety monitoring board's (the dsmb ) recommendation that the study be stopped because vintafolide in combination with pld versus pld alone did not meet the pre-specified criteria for progression-free survival to allow continuation of the study. the dsmb did not identify any safety concerns for the patients enrolled in the proceed trial. in june 2014, merck returned worldwide rights for vintafolide in all indications to endocyte. the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 20, 2015. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review alzheimer's disease mk-7622 asthma mk-1029 bacterial infection mk-7655 (relebactam) cancer mk-2206 mk-8628 contraception, medicated ius mk-8342 contraception, next generation ring mk-8342b ebola vaccine v920 gastric cancer mk-3475 keytruda heart failure mk-1242 (vericiguat) (1) hepatitis c mk-3682/mk-8742 (elbasvir)/ mk-5172 (grazoprevir) mk-3682/mk-8408/mk-5172 (grazoprevir) pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 allergy mk-8237, house dust mite (march 2014) (1,2) alzheimer's disease mk-8931 (december 2013) atherosclerosis mk-0859 (anacetrapib) (may 2008) bladder cancer mk-3475 keytruda (october 2014) clostridium difficile infection mk-3415a (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab) (november 2011) mk-4261 (surotomycin) (july 2012) cmv prophylaxis in transplant patients mk-8228 (letermovir) (june 2014) diabetes mellitus mk-3102 (omarigliptin) (september 2012) mk-8835 (ertugliflozin) (november 2013) (1) mk-1293 (february 2014) (1) head and neck cancer mk-3475 keytruda (november 2014) hepatitis c mk-5172a (grazoprevir/elbasvir) (june 2014) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) hiv mk-1439 (doravirine) (december 2014) non-small-cell lung cancer mk-3475 keytruda (september 2014) opioid-induced constipation mk-2402 (bevenopran) (october 2012) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) (september 2007) acute bacterial skin &amp; skin structure infections (absssi) mk-1986 sivextro (eu) complicated intra-abdominal infections (ciai) &amp; complicated urinary tract infections (cuti) mk-7625a zerbaxa (eu) diabetes mellitus mk-3102 (omarigliptin) (japan) fertility mk-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (u.s.) (3) hpv-related cancers v503 gardasil 9 (eu) melanoma mk-3475 keytruda (eu) neuromuscular blockade reversal mk-8616 bridion (u.s.) (4) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (u.s./eu) (5) footnotes: (1) being developed in a collaboration. (2) north american rights only. (3) in july 2014, merck received a crl from the fda for corifollitropin alfa injection (mk-8962). merck is reviewing its options with respect to this drug candidate in response to the crl. (4) in september 2013, merck received a crl from the fda for the resubmission of the nda for bridion (mk-8616). to address the crl, the company conducted a new hypersensitivity study and has resubmitted the nda to the fda. (5) v419 is being developed in partnership with sanofi pasteur and, if approved, will be co-promoted via a u.s. partnership and marketed via the spmsd joint venture in europe. employees as of december 31, 2014, the company had approximately 70,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,800 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 31% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. 16 table of contents 2013 restructuring program in 2013, the company announced a global restructuring program (the 2013 restructuring program ) as part of its global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. as part of the program, the company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. these workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. the company will also reduce its global real estate footprint and continue to improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. since inception of the 2013 restructuring program through december 31, 2014, merck has eliminated approximately 6,095 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. the remaining actions under the 2013 restructuring program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2015. merger restructuring program the global restructuring program (the merger restructuring program ) that was initiated in 2010 subsequent to the merck and schering-plough merger (the merger ) is intended to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. the workforce reductions associated with this plan relate to the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. since inception of the merger restructuring program through december 31, 2014, merck has eliminated approximately 28,410 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. approximately 3,440 position eliminations remain pending under this program and an older program as of december 31, 2014. the non-manufacturing related restructuring actions under the merger restructuring program were substantially completed by the end of 2013. the remaining actions under this program relate to ongoing manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $12 million in 2014, and are estimated at $53 million in the aggregate for the years 2015 through 2019. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $125 million and $213 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $66 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states were 60% of sales in 2014, 59% of sales in 2013 and 57% of sales in 2012. the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. 17 table of contents merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company's business is provided in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company's marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other companies' patents, potential legislation relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. 18 table of contents if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for the company's major marketed products and phase 3 candidates is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. for example, a court has ruled that a proposed generic form of nasonex , made by apotex, a generic manufacturer, does not infringe the company's u.s. patent for nasonex . if apotex receives approval to market in the united states its generic form of nasonex, the company will experience a loss of nasonex sales. in addition, in september 2013, the ec approved a biosimilar for remicade . while the company experienced biosimilar competition in certain smaller european markets, the company anticipates a more substantial decline in remicade sales following loss of market exclusivity in major european markets in february 2015. additionally, the company anticipates mandatory price reductions in certain european markets. also, pursuant to an agreement with a generic manufacturer, that manufacturer may launch in the united states a generic version of zetia in december 2016. key company products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as januvia , zetia, remicade , janumet, gardasil, isentress, vytorin, and nasonex . as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-market trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. if any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. 19 table of contents for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the fda for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions. the company's products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to 20 table of contents market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase 4 trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan's pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company is conducting the tecos study involving sitagliptin and the results of that study could have a material adverse effect on the sales of januvia and janumet . the trial evaluating cardiovascular outcomes with sitagliptin ( tecos ), an event-driven, cardiovascular outcomes study with sitagliptin, began in 2008 and enrolled over 14,000 patients. tecos will evaluate the impact of sitagliptin on cardiovascular outcomes when added to usual care compared to usual care without sitagliptin in a large, high-risk type 2 diabetes population across multiple countries. tecos is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2015 and the company expects that the results of tecos will be presented at the annual scientific sessions meeting of the american diabetes association in june 2015. the company sells sitagliptin as januvia , and as janumet and janumet xr (sitagliptin combined with metformin immediate-release and extended release, respectively), for the treatment of adult patients with type 2 diabetes. the januvia/janumet/janumet xr franchise is the company's largest with combined 2014 worldwide sales of $6.0 billion. 21 table of contents if the results of the tecos trial show a negative effect on cardiovascular outcomes or reveal another safety issue related to the use of sitagliptin, that could have a material, adverse effect on the sales of januvia and janumet/janumet xr . if sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the company's business, cash flows, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. the company faces intense competition from lower cost-generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. the company also faces the risk of litigation with the government over its pricing calculations. in addition, in the u.s. larger customers may, in the future, ask for and receive higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu and japan, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. 22 table of contents the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, major health care reform was adopted into law and important market reforms have begun and continued through its implementation in 2014. the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million americans by the end of the decade. in 2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the medicaid program increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the company's branded prescription drugs; the medicaid rebate was extended to medicaid managed care organizations; and eligibility for the federal 340b drug discount program was extended to rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain additional children's hospitals. in addition, the law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, the company is required to pay an annual health care reform fee, which is assessed on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. the fee is calculated based on the industry's total sales of branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. the percentage of a manufacturer's sales that are included is determined by a tiered scale based on the manufacturer's individual revenues. each manufacturer's portion of the total annual fee is based on the manufacturer's proportion of the total includable sales in the prior year. the annual industry fee for 2014 was $3.0 billion and will remain $3.0 billion in 2015. the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. the uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, other austerity measures, including the biennial price reductions in japan, negatively affected the company's revenue performance in 2014. the company anticipates these pricing actions and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2015. the company continues to monitor the credit and economic conditions within greece, spain, italy and portugal, among other members of the eu. these economic conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries and may also impact the likelihood of collecting 100% of outstanding accounts receivable. as of december 31, 2014, the company's accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal totaled approximately $600 million. of this amount, hospital and public sector receivables were approximately $330 million in the aggregate, of which approximately 14%, 27%, 46% and 13% related to greece, italy, spain and portugal, respectively. as of december 31, 2014, the company's total net accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year were approximately $100 million, of which approximately 31% related to accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal, mostly comprised of hospital and public sector receivables. if credit and economic conditions in europe worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. 23 table of contents the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company's results of operations. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. the company faces significant litigation related to vioxx . on september 30, 2004, merck voluntarily withdrew vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. although merck has settled the major portion of the u.s. product liability litigation, the company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of vioxx . in addition to the vioxx product liability lawsuits and lawsuits from certain states that did not participate in a previously-disclosed settlement, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought against merck and several current and former officers and directors of merck alleging that merck made false and misleading statements regarding vioxx in violation of the federal securities laws and state laws (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx securities lawsuits ). the vioxx securities lawsuits have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation to the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey before district judge stanley r. chesler for inclusion in a nationwide multidistrict litigation, and have been consolidated for all purposes. merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the united states. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx international lawsuits .) the vioxx litigation is discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. the company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, vioxx securities lawsuits and vioxx international lawsuits (collectively, the vioxx litigation ) and will vigorously defend against them. the company's insurance coverage with respect to the vioxx litigation will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses. the company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the vioxx litigation. these proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the company cannot 24 table of contents predict the course the proceedings will take. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the remaining vioxx litigation. the company has not established any material reserves for any potential liability relating to the remaining vioxx litigation although it has established reserves related to the settlement of certain vioxx international lawsuits and with respect to certain other vioxx product liability lawsuits, all of which are discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. unfavorable outcomes in the vioxx litigation resulting in the payment of substantial damages could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its presence in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. for instance, in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency. as a result of that devaluation, the company recognized losses due to exchange. if the venezuelan government were to devalue its currency again in 2015, the company would recognize additional losses due to exchange and the company expects that the impact would be greater than in 2013. in addition, in china, recent governmental investigations involving other multinational pharmaceutical companies and domestic health care companies and medical institutes adversely affected the company's growth prospects in that market. while the company continues to believe that china represents an important growth opportunity, these events, coupled with heightened scrutiny of the health care industry, may continue to have an impact on product pricing and market access generally. the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to continue to expand the company's business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company's operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows as occurred in venezuela in 2013. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically 25 table of contents examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in march 2014, president obama's administration re-proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on excess returns attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. other potentially significant changes to the u.s. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system and taxing currently the accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings of controlled foreign corporations, have been set out by various congressional committees. the company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company's business. all aspects of the company's business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. a significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by the company's workforce, others with authorized access to the company's systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. the ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination, intentional destruction of confidential information stored in the company's systems or in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. the company could also experience a business interruption, intentional theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, or insider threat attacks, which may compromise the company's system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at the company's third-party providers. although the aggregate impact on the company's operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the company has been the target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. the company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of company systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and systems will prevent service interruption or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the company's 26 table of contents or the company's third party providers' databases or systems that could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company. social media platforms present risks and challenges. the inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. in addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the company on any social networking web site could damage the company's reputation, brand image and goodwill. further, the disclosure of non-public company-sensitive information by the company's workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. although there is an internal company social media policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the company, there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. in 2013, the company voluntarily suspended sales of zilmax , an animal feed supplement, in the united states and canada after concerns were raised about cattle that had been fed zilmax . the suspension materially reduced the sales of zilmax . the company can give no assurances as to when sales of zilmax in the united states and canada will resume. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics 27 table of contents requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. 28 table of contents pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant litigation related to vioxx. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 18 cautionary factors that may affect future results 27 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2015 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $221 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.2 billion in 2015 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 11,900 people are employed in the company's research activities. research and development expenses were $6.7 billion in 2015, $7.2 billion in 2014 and 10 table of contents $7.5 billion in 2013 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition and divestiture-related costs in all years). the company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. the company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a renewed focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. the company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women's health. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application (nda) for a drug or the biologics license application (bla) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory 11 table of contents filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v (pdufa), the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a complete response letter (crl) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. in addition, under the generating antibiotic incentives now act, the fda may grant qualified infectious disease product (qidp) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. qidp designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including priority review of the nda when filed, eligibility for fast track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the food, drug and cosmetic act. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application (maa) with the european medicines agency (ema). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency in japan, health canada, ag ncia nacional de vigil ncia sanat ria in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, therapeutic goods administration in australia and china food and drug administration. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval 12 table of contents in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states or internationally. keytruda is an fda-approved anti-pd-1 therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types. keytruda is currently approved for the treatment of melanoma, advanced melanoma and nsclc. in december 2015, merck announced results from the pivotal keynote-010 study to evaluate the potential of an immunotherapy compared to chemotherapy based on prospective measurement of pd-l1 expression in patients with advanced nsclc. in the phase 2/3 study, keytruda significantly improved overall survival compared to chemotherapy in patients with any level of pd-l1 expression. based on these data, merck has submitted a supplemental bla to the fda and has filed an maa with the ema. in november 2015, merck announced that the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation to keytruda for the treatment of patients with microsatellite instability high metastatic colorectal cancer. keytruda was previously granted breakthrough therapy status for advanced melanoma and advanced nsclc. the keytruda clinical development program consists of more than 200 clinical trials, including over 100 trials that combine keytruda with other cancer treatments. these studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, melanoma, multiple myeloma, non-small-cell lung, and triple negative breast, several of which are currently in phase 3 clinical development. mk-6072, bezlotoxumab, is an investigational antitoxin for the prevention of clostridium difficile (c. difficile) infection recurrence currently under review with the fda and ema. in january 2016, merck announced that the fda accepted for review the bla for bezlotoxumab and granted priority review with a pdufa action date of july 23, 2016. in september 2015, merck announced that the two pivotal phase 3 clinical studies for bezlotoxumab met their primary efficacy endpoint: the reduction in c. difficile recurrence through week 12 compared to placebo, when used in conjunction with standard of care antibiotics for the treatment of c. difficile . the company is also seeking approval in the eu and intends to file in canada in 2016. currently, there are no therapies approved for the prevention of recurrent disease caused by c. difficile . mk-1293 is an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes being developed in collaboration with samsung bioepis. in december 2015, the company submitted an application for regulatory approval in the eu and plans to submit mk-1293 to the fda in 2016. mk-5172a, zepatier , currently under review in the eu for the treatment of chronic hcv, is a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet containing the ns5a inhibitor elbasvir (50 mg) and the ns3/4a protease inhibitor grazoprevir (100 mg). zepatier was approved by the fda in january 2016 for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hcv gt1 or gt4 infection, with or without ribavirin. v419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, under review with the fda that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of merck and sanofi pasteur. this vaccine is designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b (hib), and hepatitis b. on november 2, 2015, the fda issued a crl with respect to the bla for v419. both companies are reviewing the crl and plan to have further communication with the fda. in february 2016, the ec granted marketing authorization for v419 for prophylaxis against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis b, poliomyelitis, and invasive disease caused by hib, in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks. v419 will be marketed as vaxelis in the eu through spmsd, the company's joint venture with sanofi pasteur. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has several drug candidates in phase 3 clinical development in addition to the keytruda programs discussed above. the company anticipates filing applications for regulatory approval with the fda with respect to certain of these candidates in 2016, including mk-1293 as noted above. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis. osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. 13 table of contents odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. in september 2014, merck announced data from the pivotal phase 3 fracture outcomes study for odanacatib in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. in the long-term odanacatib fracture trial (loft), odanacatib met its primary endpoints and significantly reduced the risk of three types of osteoporotic fractures (radiographically-assessed vertebral, clinical hip, and clinical non-vertebral) compared to placebo and also reduced the risk of the secondary endpoint of clinical vertebral fractures. in addition, treatment with odanacatib led to progressive increases over five years in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and total hip. the rates of adverse events overall in loft were generally balanced between patients taking odanacatib and placebo. adjudicated events of morphea-like skin lesions and atypical femoral fractures occurred more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events were generally balanced overall between the treatment groups. there were numerically more adjudicated stroke events with odanacatib than with placebo. adjudicated atrial fibrillation was reported more often in the odanacatib group than in the placebo group. a numeric imbalance in mortality was observed; this numeric difference does not appear to be related to a particular reported cause or causes of death. merck continues to collect data from the blinded extension study and is planning additional analyses of data from the trial, including an independent re-adjudication of major adverse cardiovascular events (mace), in support of regulatory submissions. merck plans to submit an nda to the fda for odanacatib in 2016 following completion of the independent adjudication and analysis of mace. merck also plans to submit applications to the ema and the ministry of health, labour, and welfare in japan. mk-3102, omarigliptin, is an investigational once-weekly dpp-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. in september 2015, the company announced that omarigliptin achieved its primary efficacy endpoint in a phase 3 study. omarigliptin was found to be non-inferior to januvia , at reducing patients' a1c (an estimate of a person's blood glucose over a two-to three-month period) levels from baseline, with similar a1c reductions achieved in both groups. the head-to-head study was designed to evaluate once-weekly treatment with omarigliptin 25 mg compared to 100 mg of januvia once daily. results were presented during an oral session at the 51st european association for the study of diabetes annual meeting. also, in september 2015, merck announced that the japanese pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency approved marizev (omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets. japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. merck plans to submit omarigliptin for regulatory approval in the united states in 2016. other worldwide regulatory submissions will follow. mk-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (sglt2) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with pfizer inc. ertugliflozin is also being studied in combination with januvia (sitagliptin) and metformin. merck expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the united states for ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combination tablets by the end of 2016. mk-8237 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy that is part of a north america partnership between merck and alk-abello. merck plans to submit an nda to the fda for mk-8237 in the first half of 2016. mk-8931, verubecestat, is merck's novel investigational oral -amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (bace) inhibitor for the treatment of alzheimer's disease being studied in a phase 3 trial (apecs) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mk-8931 versus placebo in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to alzheimer's disease, also known as prodromal alzheimer's disease. mk-8931 is also being studied in another phase 2/3 randomized, placebo-controlled, study in patients with mild-to-moderate alzheimer's disease (epoch). the epoch study completed enrollment in the fourth quarter of 2015 and is estimated to reach primary trial completion in mid-2017. mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (cetp) in development for raising hdl-c and reducing ldl-c. anacetrapib is being evaluated in a 30,000 patient, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial sponsored by oxford university, reveal (randomized evaluation of the effects of anacetrapib through lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease, which is projected to conclude in early 2017. in november 2015, merck announced that the data monitoring committee (dmc) of the reveal outcomes study completed its planned review of unblinded study data and recommended the study continue with no changes. the dmc reviewed safety and efficacy data from the study, which included an assessment of futility. merck remains blinded to the actual results of this analysis and to other reveal safety and efficacy data. 14 table of contents the reveal steering committee and merck will continue to monitor the progress of the study. no additional interim efficacy analyses are planned. mk-7655a is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). the fda has designated this combination a qidp with designated fast track status for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. mk-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral, once-daily antiviral candidate for the prevention and treatment of human cytomegalovirus infection. letermovir has received orphan drug status in the eu and in the united states, where it has also been granted fast track designation. mk-8342b, referred to as the next generation ring, is an investigational combination (etonogestrel and 17 -estradiol) vaginal ring for contraception and the treatment of dysmenorrhea in women seeking contraception. mk-0431j is an investigational fixed-dose combination of sitagliptin and ipragliflozin under development for commercialization in japan in collaboration with astellas pharma inc. (astellas). ipragliflozin, an sglt2 inhibitor, co-developed by astellas and kotobuki pharmaceutical co., ltd. (kotobuki), is approved for use in japan and is being co-promoted with merck and kotobuki. v920 is an investigational rvsv-zebov (ebola) vaccine candidate being studied in large scale phase 2/3 clinical trials currently underway in west africa. in november 2014, merck and newlink genetics announced an exclusive licensing and collaboration agreement for the investigational ebola vaccine. in december 2015, merck announced that the application for emergency use assessment and listing (eual) for v920 has been accepted for review by the world health organization (who). according to the who, the eual process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of ebola. the procedure is intended to assist united nations' procurement agencies and member states on the acceptability of using a vaccine candidate in an emergency-use setting. eual designation is not prequalification by the who, but rather is a special procedure implemented when there is an outbreak of a disease with high rates of morbidity and/or mortality and a lack of treatment and/or prevention options. in such instances, the who may recommend making a vaccine available for a limited time, while further clinical trial data are being gathered for formal regulatory agency review by a national regulatory authority. the decision to grant v920 eual status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. while eual designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. v212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus (vzv) vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company is conducting two phase 3 trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. mk-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, once-daily oral next-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by merck for the treatment of hiv-1 infection. in 2015, the company also divested or discontinued certain drug candidates. in july 2015, merck and allergan plc (allergan) entered into an agreement pursuant to which allergan acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to mk-1602 and mk-8031, merck's investigational small molecule oral calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine. mk-4261, surotomycin, is an investigational oral antibiotic in development for the treatment of c. difficile associated diarrhea. merck acquired surotomycin as part of its purchase of cubist. during the second quarter of 2015, the company received unfavorable efficacy data from a randomized, double-blinded, active-controlled study in patients with c. difficile associated diarrhea. the evaluation of this data, combined with an assessment of the commercial opportunity for surotomycin, resulted in the discontinuation of the program. mk-2402, bevenopran, is an oral investigational therapy in development as a potential treatment for opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. merck acquired bevenopran as a part of its purchase of cubist. the company has made the decision not to continue development of this program and is seeking to out-license the asset. 15 table of contents mk-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, is an investigational fertility treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in assisted reproductive technology. in july 2014, merck received a crl from the fda for its nda for corifollitropin alfa injection. merck has made a decision to discontinue development of corifollitropin alfa injection in the united states for business reasons. corifollitropin alfa injection is marketed as elonva in certain markets outside of the united states. the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 19, 2016. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review alzheimer's disease mk-7622 asthma mk-1029 cancer mk-3475 keytruda hodgkin lymphoma pmbcl (primary mediastinal large b-cell lymphoma) advanced solid tumors mk-2206 mk-8628 diabetes mk-8521 heart failure mk-1242 (vericiguat) (1) hepatitis c mk-3682b (mk-3682/mk-8408/ mk-5172 (grazoprevir)) pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 allergy mk-8237, house dust mite (march 2014) (1,2) alzheimer's disease mk-8931 (verubecestat) (december 2013) atherosclerosis mk-0859 (anacetrapib) (may 2008) bacterial infection mk-7655a (relebactam+imipenem/cilastatin) (october 2015) cancer mk-3475 keytruda bladder (october 2014) breast (october 2015) colorectal (november 2015) esophageal (december 2015) gastric (may 2015) head and neck (november 2014) multiple myeloma (december 2015) cmv prophylaxis in transplant patients mk-8228 (letermovir) (june 2014) contraception, next generation ring mk-8342b (september 2015) diabetes mellitus mk-3102 (omarigliptin) (september 2012) mk-8835 (ertugliflozin) (november 2013) (1) mk-8835a (ertugliflozin+sitagliptin) (september 2015) (1) mk-8835b (ertugliflozin+metformin) (august 2015) (1) mk-1293 (february 2014) (u.s.) (1) mk-0431j (sitagliptin+ipragliflozin) (october 2015) (japan) (1) ebola vaccine v920 (march 2015) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) hiv mk-1439 (doravirine) (december 2014) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) (september 2007) cancer mk-3475 keytruda non-small-cell lung (eu) clostridium difficile infection mk-6072 (bezlotoxumab) (u.s./eu) diabetes mellitus mk-1293 (eu) (1) hepatitis c mk-5172a zepatier (eu) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (u.s.) (3) footnotes: (1) being developed in a collaboration. (2) north american rights only. (3) v419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of merck and sanofi pasteur. on november 2, 2015, the fda issued a crl with respect to v419. both companies are reviewing the crl and plan to have further communication with the fda. employees as of december 31, 2015, the company had approximately 68,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,200 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 32% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. 2013 restructuring program in 2013, the company initiated actions under a global restructuring program (the 2013 restructuring program) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. the actions under 16 table of contents this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. additionally, these actions include the reduction of the company's global real estate footprint and improvements in the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. since inception of the 2013 restructuring program through december 31, 2015, merck has eliminated approximately 8,630 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. the actions under the 2013 restructuring program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. merger restructuring program in 2010, subsequent to the merck and schering-plough merger (merger), the company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the merger restructuring program) designed to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. further actions under this program were initiated in 2011. the actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. since inception of the merger restructuring program through december 31, 2015, merck has eliminated approximately 29,645 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. the non-facility related restructuring actions under the merger restructuring program are substantially completed. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $8 million in 2015, and are estimated at $59 million in the aggregate for the years 2016 through 2020. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $109 million and $125 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $57 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states as a percentage of total company sales were 56% of sales in 2015, 60% of sales in 2014 and 59% of sales in 2013. the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company's business is provided in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. 17 table of contents available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec). the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company's marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other companies' patents, potential legislation relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. 18 table of contents a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for certain of the company's marketed products, candidates under review and phase 3 candidates is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. for example, a court has ruled that a proposed generic form of nasonex does not infringe the company's u.s. patent for nasonex . if the generic form of nasonex receives marketing approval in the united states, the company will experience a loss of nasonex sales. in addition, the company will lose u.s. patent protection for cubicin in june 2016. also, pursuant to an agreement with a generic manufacturer, that manufacturer may launch in the united states a generic version of zetia in december 2016. key company products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as januvia , zetia , janumet , gardasil/gardasil 9, isentress , and vytorin . as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-market trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. if any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. 19 table of contents the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions. the company's products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. 20 table of contents developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase 4 trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan's pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower cost-generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, 21 table of contents more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. the company also faces the risk of litigation with the government over its pricing calculations. in addition, in the u.s., larger customers may, in the future, ask for and receive higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. the company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu and japan, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, the united states enacted major health care reform legislation (the patient protection and affordable care act). various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. by the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. with respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340b drug discount program. the law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. the total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2015 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2016. the fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as medicare and medicaid. on january 21, 2016, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services issued the medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the patient protection and affordable care act effective april 1, 2016. the rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state medicaid programs. merck is still evaluating the rule to determine whether it will have a material impact on merck's medicaid rebate liability. 22 table of contents the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. the uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the company's revenue performance in 2015. the company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in japan that will occur again in 2016, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. if credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company's results of operations. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. in the past, the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the company. 23 table of contents the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. in addition, in china, commercial and economic conditions may adversely affect the company's growth prospects in that market. while the company continues to believe that china represents an important growth opportunity, these events, coupled with heightened scrutiny of the health care industry, may continue to have an impact on product pricing and market access generally. the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to continue to expand the company's business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company's operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows as occurred with respect to venezuela in 2015. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in march 2014, president obama's administration re-proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on excess returns attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. other potentially significant changes to the u.s. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system and taxing currently the accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings of controlled foreign corporations, have been set out by various congressional committees. the company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. 24 table of contents in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. a significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by the company's workforce, others with authorized access to the company's systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. the ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination, intentional destruction of confidential information stored in the company's systems or in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. the company could also experience a business interruption, intentional theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, or insider threat attacks, which may compromise the company's system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at the company's third-party providers. although the aggregate impact on the company's operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the company has been the target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. the company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of company systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and systems will prevent service interruption or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the company's or the company's third party providers' databases or systems that could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. 25 table of contents biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company's business. all aspects of the company's business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 26 table of contents social media platforms present risks and challenges. the inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. in addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the company on any social networking web site could damage the company's reputation, brand image and goodwill. further, the disclosure of non-public company-sensitive information by the company's workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. although there is an internal company social media policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. 27 table of contents lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 74 table of contentsrisk factors 18 cautionary factors that may affect future results 27 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2016 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $222 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.1 billion in 2016 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 12,300 people are employed in the company's research activities. research and development expenses were $10.1 billion in 2016 , $6.7 billion in 2015 and $7.2 billion in 2014 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition and divestiture-related costs in all years). the company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. 10 table of contents the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. the company is committed to making externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy, with a focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates which may provide more value through out-licensing. the company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, and respiratory diseases. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application (nda) for a drug or the biologics license application (bla) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologic that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted 11 table of contents a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v (pdufa), the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a complete response letter (crl) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. in addition, under the generating antibiotic incentives now act, the fda may grant qualified infectious disease product (qidp) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. qidp designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including priority review of the nda when filed, eligibility for fast track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the food, drug and cosmetic act. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application (maa) with the ema. after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency in japan, health canada, ag ncia nacional de vigil ncia sanat ria in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, therapeutic goods administration in australia and china food and drug administration. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. 12 table of contents research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states. keytruda is an fda-approved anti-pd-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types. keytruda is currently approved for the treatment of nsclc, melanoma, advanced melanoma, and head and neck cancer. in february 2017, the fda accepted for review two supplemental blas (sbla) for keytruda in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer, including most bladder cancers. the application for first-line use was granted priority review for the treatment of these patients who are ineligible for cisplatin-containing therapy. the application for second-line use was granted priority review for these patients with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. the pdufa action date for both applications is june 14, 2017. the fda previously granted breakthrough therapy designation to keytruda for the second-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. in january 2017, the fda accepted for review an sbla for keytruda plus chemotherapy (pemetrexed plus carboplatin) for the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic or advanced non-squamous nsclc regardless of pd-l1 expression and with no egfr or alk genomic tumor aberrations. this is the first application for regulatory approval of keytruda in combination with another treatment. the fda granted priority review with a pdufa action date of may 10, 2017. the sbla will be reviewed under the fda's accelerated approval program. in december 2016, the fda accepted for review an sbla for keytruda for the treatment of patients with refractory classical hodgkin lymphoma or for patients who have relapsed after three or more prior lines of therapy. the fda granted priority review with a pdufa action date of march 15, 2017. the sbla will be reviewed under the fda's accelerated approval program. in november 2016, the fda accepted for review an sbla for keytruda , for the treatment of previously treated patients with advanced microsatellite instability-high (msi-h) cancer. the fda granted priority review with a pdufa action date of march 8, 2017. the sbla will be reviewed under the fda's accelerated approval program. the fda recently granted breakthrough therapy designation to keytruda for unresectable or metastatic msi-h non-colorectal cancer, and previously granted it for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic msi-h colorectal cancer. additionally, keytruda has also received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda for the treatment of patients with primary mediastinal b-cell lymphoma that is refractory to or has relapsed after two prior lines of therapy. the keytruda clinical development program consists of more than 400 clinical trials, including more than 200 trials that combine keytruda with other cancer treatments. these studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, hepatocellular, hodgkin lymphoma, non-hodgkin lymphoma, melanoma, multiple myeloma, nasopharyngeal, nsclc, ovarian, prostate, renal and triple-negative breast, many of which are currently in phase 3 clinical development. further trials are being planned for other cancers. mk-1293 is an investigational follow-on biologic insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes under review by the fda. mk-1293 was approved in the eu in january 2017. mk-1293 is being developed in collaboration with and partially funded by samsung bioepis. v419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, under review with the fda that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership between merck and sanofi. this vaccine is designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b (hib), and hepatitis b. on november 2, 2015, the fda issued a crl with respect to the bla for v419. both companies are reviewing the crl and plan to have further communication with the fda. in february 2016, the ec granted marketing authorization for v419 for prophylaxis against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis b, poliomyelitis, and invasive disease caused by hib, in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks. v419 is being marketed as vaxelis in the eu. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has several drug candidates in phase 3 clinical development in addition to the keytruda programs discussed above. 13 table of contents mk-8931, verubecestat, is an investigational small molecule inhibitor of the beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (bace1) for the treatment of alzheimer's disease. in february 2017, merck announced that its external data monitoring committee (edmc) recommended termination of the phase 2/3 epoch study of verubecestat in mild-to-moderate alzheimer's disease based on the low probability of success of this study. the same edmc recommended that a separate phase 3 study, apecs, evaluating verubecestat for amnestic mild cognitive impairment due to alzheimer's disease, also known as prodromal alzheimer's disease, continue as planned. estimated primary completion date for the apecs study, which is fully enrolled, is february 2019. mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (cetp) in development for raising hdl-c and reducing ldl-c. anacetrapib is being evaluated in a 30,000 patient, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial sponsored by oxford university, reveal (randomized evaluation of the effects of anacetrapib through lipid-modification), involving patients with preexisting vascular disease. in november 2015, merck announced that the data monitoring committee (dmc) of the reveal outcomes study completed its planned review of unblinded study data and recommended the study continue with no changes. the dmc reviewed safety and efficacy data from the study, which included an assessment of futility. merck remains blinded to the actual results of this analysis and to other reveal safety and efficacy data. under the study, the last patient's last visit occurred in january 2017. the company anticipates receiving the top-line results from the study mid-year 2017. mk-7655a is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). the fda has designated this combination a qidp with designated fast track status for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. mk-8228, letermovir, is an investigational oral once-daily or an intravenous infusion antiviral candidate for the prevention of clinically-significant cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection. letermovir has received orphan drug status in the eu and in the united states, where it has also been granted fast track designation. in october 2016, merck announced that the pivotal phase 3 clinical study of letermovir met its primary endpoint. the global, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study evaluated the efficacy and safety of letermovir in adult (18 years and older) cmv-seropositive recipients of an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. merck plans to submit regulatory applications for the approval of letermovir in the united states and eu in 2017. mk-8835, ertugliflozin, is an investigational oral sglt2 inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in collaboration with pfizer inc. (pfizer). in september 2016, merck and pfizer announced that a phase 3 study (vertis sita2) of ertugliflozin met its primary endpoint. both 5 mg and 15 mg daily doses of ertugliflozin showed significantly greater reductions in a1c (an average measure of blood glucose over the past two to three months) when added to patients on a background of sitagliptin and metformin. ertugliflozin is also being studied in combination with januvia (sitagliptin) and metformin. in december 2016, merck submitted ndas to the fda for ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combinations: mk-8835a, ertugliflozin plus januvia , and mk-8835b, ertugliflozin plus metformin. the company anticipates a response from the fda in the first quarter of 2017. ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combinations are currently under review in the eu. mk-0431j is an investigational fixed-dose combination of sitagliptin and ipragliflozin under development for commercialization in japan in collaboration with astellas pharma inc. (astellas). ipragliflozin, an sglt2 inhibitor, co-developed by astellas and kotobuki pharmaceutical co., ltd. (kotobuki), is approved for use in japan and is being co-promoted with merck and kotobuki. v920 is an investigational rvsv-zebov (ebola) vaccine candidate being studied in large scale phase 2/3 clinical trials. in november 2014, merck and newlink genetics announced an exclusive licensing and collaboration agreement for the investigational ebola vaccine. in december 2015, merck announced that the application for emergency use assessment and listing (eual) for v920 was accepted for review by the world health organization (who). according to the who, the eual process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of ebola. the decision to grant v920 eual status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. while eual designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. in july 2016, merck announced that the fda granted v920 breakthrough therapy designation, and that the ema granted the vaccine candidate prime (priority medicines) status. in december 2016, end of study results from the who ring vaccination trial were reported in lancet supporting the july 2015 interim assessment that 14 table of contents v920 offers substantial protection against ebola virus disease, with no reported cases among vaccinated individuals from 10 days after vaccination in both randomized and non-randomized clusters. results from other ongoing studies are anticipated in the second half of 2017. mk-1242, vericiguat, is an investigational treatment for heart failure being studied in a phase 3 clinical trial in patients suffering from chronic heart failure. the development of vericiguat is part of a worldwide strategic collaboration between merck and bayer ag. v212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus (vzv) vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company completed the phase 3 trial in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and is conducting another phase 3 trial in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. the study in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients met its primary endpoints and merck presented the results from this study at the american society for blood and marrow transplantation meetings in february 2017. mk-1439, doravirine, is an investigational non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor being developed by merck for the treatment of hiv-1 infection. in february 2017, the company received positive results from a first phase 3 study showing that doravirine was non-inferior to an alternative regimen in achieving and maintaining hiv-1 suppression in infected adults during 48 weeks of treatment. in 2016, the company also divested or discontinued certain drug candidates. merck announced that it is discontinuing the development of odanacatib, an investigational cathepsin k inhibitor for osteoporosis, and will not seek regulatory approval for its use. merck previously reported a numeric imbalance in adjudicated stroke events in the pivotal phase 3 fracture outcomes study in postmenopausal women. the company has decided to discontinue development after an independent adjudication and analysis of major adverse cardiovascular events confirmed an increased risk of stroke. the company determined that, for business reasons, it would terminate the north america partnership agreement with alk-abell that included mk-8237, an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy. merck has given alk-abell six months' notice that it is terminating the agreement and therefore this compound will be returned to alk-abell . this decision was not due to efficacy or safety concerns. the company also decided, for business reasons, to discontinue the clinical development of mk-8342b, referred to as the next generation ring, an investigational combination (etonogestrel and 17 -estradiol) vaginal ring for contraception and the treatment of dysmenorrhea in women seeking contraception. this decision was not due to efficacy or safety concerns. merck announced that, for business reasons, it will not proceed with submitting marketing applications for omarigliptin, an investigational, once-weekly dpp-4 inhibitor, in the united states or europe. this decision did not result from concerns about the efficacy or safety of omarigliptin. 15 table of contents the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 24, 2017. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area (other than with respect to keytruda ) and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review asthma mk-1029 cancer mk-3475 keytruda pmbcl (primary mediastinal large b-cell lymphoma) advanced solid tumors nasopharyngeal ovarian prostate mk-2206 cough, including cough with ipf mk-7264 diabetes mellitus mk-8521 hepatitis c mk-3682b (mk-3682 (uprifosbuvir)/mk-5172 (grazoprevir)/mk-8408 (ruzasvir)) pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 alzheimer's disease mk-8931 (verubecestat) (december 2013) atherosclerosis mk-0859 (anacetrapib) (may 2008) bacterial infection mk-7655a (relebactam+imipenem/cilastatin) (october 2015) cancer mk-3475 keytruda bladder (october 2014) (eu) breast (october 2015) colorectal (november 2015) esophageal (december 2015) gastric (may 2015) head and neck (november 2014) (eu) hepatocellular (may 2016) hodgkin lymphoma (july 2016) (eu) multiple myeloma (december 2015) renal (october 2016) cmv prophylaxis in transplant patients mk-8228 (letermovir) (june 2014) diabetes mellitus mk-8835 (ertugliflozin) (november 2013) (u.s.) (1) mk-8835a (ertugliflozin+sitagliptin) (september 2015) (u.s.) ( 1) mk-8835b (ertugliflozin+metformin) (august 2015) (u.s.) (1) mk-0431j (sitagliptin+ipragliflozin) (october 2015) (japan) (1) ebola vaccine v920 (march 2015) heart failure mk-1242 (vericiguat) (september 2016) (1) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) hiv mk-1439 (doravirine) (december 2014) new molecular entities/vaccines allergy mk-8237, house dust mite (u.s.) (2) diabetes mellitus mk-1293 (u.s.) (1) mk-8835 (ertugliflozin) (eu) (1) mk-8835a (ertugliflozin+sitagliptin) (eu) ( 1) mk-8835b (ertugliflozin+metformin) (eu) (1) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (u.s.) (3) certain supplemental filings cancer keytruda previously treated microsatellite instability-high cancer (u.s.) relapsed or refractory classical hodgkin lymphoma (u.s.) combination with chemotherapy in first-line non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (u.s.) first line cis-ineligible bladder cancer (u.s.) second line metastatic bladder cancer (u.s.) footnotes: (1) being developed in a collaboration. (2) mk-8237 was being developed as part of a north america partnership with alk-abell . merck has given alk-abell six months' notice that it is terminating the agreement and, therefore, this compound will be returned to alk-abell . (3) v419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of merck and sanofi. on november 2, 2015, the fda issued a crl with respect to v419. both companies are reviewing the crl and plan to have further communication with the fda. employees as of december 31, 2016, the company had approximately 68,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,500 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 29% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. restructuring activities the company incurs substantial costs for restructuring program activities related to merck's productivity and cost reduction initiatives, as well as in connection with the integration of certain acquired businesses. in 2010 and 2013, the company commenced actions under global restructuring programs designed to streamline its cost structure. the actions under these programs include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. the company also continues to reduce its global real estate footprint and improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. the non-facility related restructuring actions under these programs are substantially complete; the remaining activities primarily relate to ongoing facility rationalizations. since inception of the programs through december 31, 2016, merck has eliminated approximately 40,900 positions comprised of 16 table of contents employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. the company expects to substantially complete the remaining actions under these programs by the end of 2017. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $11 million in 2016 , and are estimated at $44 million in the aggregate for the years 2017 through 2021 . these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $83 million and $109 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $64 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states as a percentage of total company sales were 54% of sales in 2016, 56% of sales in 2015 and 60% of sales in 2014. the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company's business is provided in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). in addition, the company will provide without charge a copy of its annual report on form 10-k, including financial statements and schedules, upon the written request of any shareholder to merck shareholder services, merck &amp; co., inc., 2000 galloping hill road, k1-3049, kenilworth, nj 07033 u.s.a. the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to the company's marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or claims by third parties of infringement against the company. the company defends its patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated ndas with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by the company. the company normally responds by defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other companies' patents, potential legislation relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in a more general weakening of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. a chart listing the patent protection for certain of the company's marketed products, and u.s. patent protection for candidates under review and phase 3 candidates is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of market exclusivity can have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. for example, pursuant 18 table of contents to an agreement with a generic manufacturer, that manufacturer launched in the united states a generic version of zetia in december 2016. in addition, the company will lose u.s. patent protection for vytorin in april 2017. the company expects a significant and rapid loss of sales of zetia and vytorin in the united states in 2017. key products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as januvia , janumet , keytruda , gardasil/gardasil 9, isentress and zepatier . as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-approval trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. such events could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any such products. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. 19 table of contents the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions. failure to successfully develop and market new products in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's products, including products in development, cannot be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-approval phase 4 trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; 20 table of contents changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan's pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower cost-generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic and biosimilar products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. 21 table of contents the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the aca, and (iii) state activities aimed at increasing price transparency. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, in the u.s., larger customers may, in the future, ask for and receive higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. the company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. in order to provide information about the company's pricing practices, the company recently posted on its website its first pricing action transparency report for the united states for the years 2010 - 2016. the report provides the company's average annual list price and net price increases across the company's u.s. portfolio dating back to 2010. the report shows that the company's average annual net price increases (after taking sales deductions such as rebates, discounts and returns into account) across the u.s. human health portfolio have been in the low to mid-single digits since 2010. additionally, the weighted average annual discount rate has been steadily increasing over time, reflecting the competitive market for branded medicines and the impact of the aca. in 2016, the company's gross u.s. sales were reduced by 40.9% as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu and japan, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, the united states enacted major health care reform legislation in the form of the aca. various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. with respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340b drug discount program. the law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. the total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2016 and will increase to $4.0 billion in 2017. the fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as medicare and medicaid. on january 21, 2016, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) issued the medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the aca effective april 1, 2016. the rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state medicaid programs. the impact of changes resulting from the issuance of the rule is not material to merck, at this time. however, the company is still awaiting guidance from cms on two aspects of the rule that were deferred for later implementation. these include a definition of what constitutes a product line extension' and a delay in the participation of the u.s. territories in the medicaid drug rebate program until april 1, 2020. the company will evaluate the financial impact of these two elements when they become effective. 22 table of contents the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. changes in laws and regulations could materially adversely affect the company's business. all aspects of the company's business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, there is significant uncertainty about the future of the aca and healthcare laws in general in the united states. the company is participating in the debate and monitoring how any proposed changes could affect its business. the company is unable to predict the likelihood of changes to the aca. depending on the nature of any repeal and replacement of the aca, such actions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. the uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the company's revenue performance in 2016. the company anticipates these pricing actions and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2017. if credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company's results of operations. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. 23 table of contents failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect its ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. the company's success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. the company cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. in the past, the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the company. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. in addition, in china, commercial and economic conditions may adversely affect the company's growth prospects in that market. while the company continues to believe that china represents an important growth opportunity, these events, coupled with heightened scrutiny of the health care industry, may continue to have an impact on product pricing and market access generally. the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to maintain the company's presence in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company's operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows as occurred with respect to venezuela in 2015 and 2016. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and forwards and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. 24 table of contents the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure to conduct critical operations. disruption, degradation, or manipulation of these applications and systems through intentional or accidental means could impact key business processes. cyber-attacks against the company's applications and systems could result in exposure of confidential information, the modification of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. misuse of these applications and systems could result in the disclosure of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade secrets and other confidential business information. the company continues to leverage new and innovative technologies across the enterprise to improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business processes; the use of which can create new risks. although the aggregate impact on the company's operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the company has been the target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. the company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of company systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and systems will prevent service interruption or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the company's or the company's third party providers' databases or systems that could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include 25 table of contents epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to, and supply of, normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates, and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. social media platforms present risks and challenges. the inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. in addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the company on 26 table of contents any social networking web site could damage the company's reputation, brand image and goodwill. further, the disclosure of non-public company-sensitive information by the company's workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. although there is an internal company social media policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand also presents new challenges. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic and/or biosimilar products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. 27 table of contents increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 68 table of contentsrisk factors 18 cautionary factors that may affect future results 29 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2017 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $158 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $944 million in 2017 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. at december 31, 2017, approximately 12,650 people were employed in the company's research activities. research and development expenses were $10.2 billion in 2017 , 11 table of contents $10.1 billion in 2016 and $6.7 billion in 2015 (which included restructuring costs and acquisition and divestiture-related costs in all years). the company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. the company is committed to ensuring that externally sourced programs remain an important component of its pipeline strategy, with a focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates that may provide more value through out-licensing. the company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, neurosciences, obesity, pain, respiratory diseases, and vaccines. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application (nda) for a drug or the biologics license application (bla) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologic that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. 12 table of contents in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v (pdufa), the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a complete response letter (crl) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. in addition, under the generating antibiotic incentives now act, the fda may grant qualified infectious disease product (qidp) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. qidp designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including priority review of the nda when filed, eligibility for fast track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the food, drug and cosmetic act. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application (maa) with the european medicines agency (ema). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency in japan, health canada, ag ncia nacional de vigil ncia sanat ria in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, therapeutic goods administration in australia and china food and drug administration. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. 13 table of contents research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. keytruda is an approved anti-pd-1 therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types. in december 2017, the fda accepted for review a supplemental bla for keytruda for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with refractory primary mediastinal b-cell lymphoma (pmbcl), or who have relapsed after two or more prior lines of therapy. the fda granted priority review status with a pdufa, or target action, date of april 3, 2018. additionally, keytruda has received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda in combination with axitnib as a first-line treatment for patients with advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma; for the treatment of high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy; and for the treatment of merkel cell carcinoma. also, in january 2018, merck and eisai co., ltd. (eisai) announced receipt of breakthrough therapy designation from the fda for eisai's multiple receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor lenvima (lenvatinib) in combination with keytruda for the potential treatment of patients with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma. the lenvima and keytruda combination therapy is being jointly developed by eisai and merck. this marks the 12 th breakthrough therapy designation granted to keytruda . the fda's breakthrough therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. in january 2018, merck announced that the pivotal phase 3 keynote-189 trial investigating keytruda in combination with pemetrexed (alimta) and cisplatin or carboplatin, for the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-squamous nsclc, met its dual primary endpoints of overall survival (os) and progression-free survival (pfs). based on an interim analysis conducted by the independent data monitoring committee, treatment with keytruda in combination with pemetrexed plus platinum chemotherapy resulted in significantly longer os and pfs than pemetrexed plus platinum chemotherapy alone. results from keynote-189 will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting and submitted to regulatory authorities. in 2017, the fda placed a full clinical hold on keynote-183 and keynote-185 and a partial clinical hold on cohort 1 of keynote-023, three combination studies of keytruda with lenalidomide or pomalidomide versus lenalidomide or pomalidomide alone in the blood cancer multiple myeloma. this decision followed a review of data by the data monitoring committee in which more deaths were observed in the keytruda arms of keynote-183 and keynote-185. the fda determined that the data available at the time indicated that the risks of keytruda plus pomalidomide or lenalidomide outweighed any potential benefit for patients with multiple myeloma. all patients enrolled in keynote-183 and keynote-185 and those in the keytruda /lenalidomide/dexamethasone cohort in keynote-023 have discontinued investigational treatment with keytruda . this clinical hold does not apply to other studies with keytruda . the keytruda clinical development program consists of more than 700 clinical trials, including more than 400 trials that combine keytruda with other cancer treatments. these studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, hepatocellular, hodgkin lymphoma, non-hodgkin lymphoma, melanoma, nasopharyngeal, nsclc, ovarian, pmbcl, prostate, renal, small-cell lung and triple-negative breast, many of which are currently in phase 3 clinical development. further trials are being planned for other cancers. mk-8835, ertugliflozin, an investigational oral sglt-2 inhibitor in development to help improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes, and two fixed-dose combination products (mk-8835a, ertugliflozin and januvia , and mk-8835b, ertugliflozin and metformin) are under review in the eu. in january 2018, the committee for medicinal products for human use (chmp) of the ema adopted a positive opinion recommending approval of these medicines. the chmp positive opinion will be considered by the ec. ertugliflozin and the two fixed-dose combination products were approved by the fda in december 2017. mk-0431j is an investigational fixed-dose combination of sitagliptin and ipragliflozin under review with the japan pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency. mk-0431 is being developed for commercialization in japan 14 table of contents in collaboration with astellas pharma inc. (astellas). ipragliflozin, an sglt2 inhibitor, co-developed by astellas and kotobuki pharmaceutical co., ltd. (kotobuki), is approved for use in japan and is being co-promoted with merck and kotobuki. mk-1439, doravirine, is an investigational, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of hiv-1 infection. in january 2018, merck announced that the fda accepted for review two ndas for doravirine. the ndas include data for doravirine as a once-daily tablet for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents, and for use of doravirine with lamivudine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in a once-daily fixed-dose combination single tablet as a complete regimen (mk-1439a). the pdufa action date for both applications is october 23, 2018. v419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, under review with the fda that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a joint venture between merck and sanofi. this vaccine is designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b (hib), and hepatitis b. in november 2015, the fda issued a crl with respect to the bla for v419. both companies are working to provide additional data requested by the fda. v419 is being marketed as vaxelis in the eu. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has several drug candidates in phase 3 clinical development in addition to the keytruda programs discussed above. mk-7655a is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). the fda has designated this combination a qidp with designated fast track status for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. mk-7339, lynparza (olaparib), is an oral parp inhibitor currently approved for certain types of ovarian and breast cancer. in july 2017, merck and astrazeneca entered into a global strategic oncology collaboration to co-develop and co-commercialize astrazeneca's lynparza for multiple cancer types. mk-5618, selumetinib, is an oral, potent, selective inhibitor of mek, part of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) pathway, currently being developed for multiple cancer types. additionally, in february 2018, the fda granted orphan drug designation for selumetinib for the treatment of neurofibromatosis type 1. the development of selumetinib is part of the global strategic oncology collaboration between merck and astrazeneca reference above. v920 is an investigational rvsv-zebov (ebola) vaccine candidate being studied in large scale phase 2/3 clinical trials. in november 2014, merck and newlink genetics announced an exclusive licensing and collaboration agreement for the investigational ebola vaccine. in december 2015, merck announced that the application for emergency use assessment and listing (eual) for v920 was accepted for review by the world health organization (who). according to the who, the eual process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of ebola. the decision to grant v920 eual status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. while eual designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. in july 2016, merck announced that the fda granted v920 breakthrough therapy designation, and that the ema granted the vaccine candidate prime (priority medicines) status. in december 2016, end of study results from the who ring vaccination trial were reported in lancet supporting the july 2015 interim assessment that v920 offers substantial protection against ebola virus disease, with no reported cases among vaccinated individuals from 10 days after vaccination in both randomized and non-randomized clusters. results from other ongoing studies to be included in the first regulatory filing are anticipated in the first half of 2018. mk-1242, vericiguat, is an investigational treatment for heart failure being studied in patients suffering from chronic heart failure. the development of vericiguat is part of a worldwide strategic collaboration between merck and bayer. v212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus (vzv) vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company completed a phase 3 trial in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and another phase 3 trial in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. the study in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients met its primary endpoints and merck presented the results from this study at the american society for blood and marrow transplantation meetings in february 2017. the study in 15 table of contents patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy met its primary endpoints, but the primary efficacy endpoint was not met in patients with hematologic malignancies. merck will present the results from this study at an upcoming scientific meeting. due to the competitive environment, the development of v212 is currently on hold. mk-7264 is a selective, non-narcotic, orally-administered p2x3-receptor agonist being developed for the treatment of refractory, chronic cough. merck plans to initiate a phase 3 clinical trial in the first half of 2018. mk-7264 was originally developed by afferent pharmaceuticals, which was acquired by the company in 2016. the company also discontinued certain drug candidates. in february 2018, merck announced that it will be stopping protocol 019, also known as the apecs study, a phase 3 study evaluating verubecestat, mk-8931, an investigational small molecule inhibitor of the beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (bace1), in people with prodromal alzheimer's disease. the decision to stop the study follows a recommendation by the external data monitoring committee (edmc), which assessed overall benefit/risk during a recent interim safety analysis. the edmc concluded that it was unlikely that positive benefit/risk could be established if the trial continued. in 2017, merck announced that it will not submit applications for regulatory approval for mk-0859, anacetrapib, the company's investigational cholesteryl ester transfer protein (cetp) inhibitor. the decision followed a thorough review of the clinical profile of anacetrapib, including discussions with external experts. also in 2017, merck made a strategic decision to discontinue the development of the investigational combination regimens mk-3682b (grazoprevir/ruzasvir/uprifosbuvir) and mk-3682c (ruzasvir/uprifosbuvir) for the treatment of hcv infection. this decision was made based on a review of available phase 2 efficacy data and in consideration of the evolving marketplace and the growing number of treatment options available for patients with chronic hcv infection, including zepatier , which is currently marketed by the company for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hcv infection. 16 table of contents the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 23, 2018. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area (other than with respect to keytruda ) and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review cancer mk-3475 keytruda advanced solid tumors ovarian prostate chronic cough mk-7264 diabetes mellitus mk-8521 (2) hiv infection mk-8591 pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 schizophrenia mk-8189 bacterial infection mk-7655a (relebactam+imipenem/cilastatin) (october 2015) cancer mk-3475 keytruda breast (october 2015) colorectal (november 2015) esophageal (december 2015) gastric (may 2015) (eu) head and neck (november 2014) (eu) hepatocellular (may 2016) nasopharyngeal (april 2016) renal (october 2016) small-cell lung (may 2017) mk-7339 lynparza (1) pancreatic (december 2014) prostate (april 2017) mk-5618 (selumetinib) (1) thyroid (june 2013) ebola vaccine v920 (march 2015) heart failure mk-1242 (vericiguat) (september 2016) (1) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) (2) hiv mk-1439 (doravirine) (december 2014) (eu) mk-1439a (doravirine/lamivudine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) (june 2015) (eu) new molecular entities/vaccines diabetes mellitus mk-0431j (sitagliptin+ipragliflozin) (japan) (1) mk-8835 (ertugliflozin) (eu) (1) mk-8835a (ertugliflozin+sitagliptin) (eu) (1) mk-8835b (ertugliflozin+metformin) (eu) (1) hiv mk-1439 (doravirine) (u.s.) mk-1439a (doravirine/lamivudine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) (u.s.) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (u.s.) (3) certain supplemental filings mk-3475 keytruda relapsed or refractory primary mediastinal b cell lymphoma (pmbcl) (u.s.) mk-7339 lynparza (1) broader approval for ovarian cancer (eu) footnotes: (1) being developed in a collaboration. (2) development is currently on hold. (3) v419 is an investigational pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine, dtap5-ipv-hib-hepb, that is being developed and, if approved, will be commercialized through a partnership of merck and sanofi. in november 2015, the fda issued a crl with respect to v419. both companies are working to provide additional data requested by the fda. employees as of december 31, 2017, the company had approximately 69,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,700 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 29% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. restructuring activities the company incurs substantial costs for restructuring program activities related to merck's productivity and cost reduction initiatives, as well as in connection with the integration of certain acquired businesses. in 2010 and 2013, the company commenced actions under global restructuring programs designed to streamline its cost structure. the actions under these programs include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. the company also continues to reduce its global real estate footprint and improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. since inception of the programs through december 31, 2017, merck has eliminated approximately 43,350 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. the company has substantially completed the actions under these programs. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating 17 table of contents environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $11 million in 2017 , and are estimated at $56 million in the aggregate for the years 2018 through 2022 . these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $82 million and $83 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $63 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states as a percentage of total company sales were 57% of sales in 2017, 54% of sales in 2016 and 56% of sales in 2015. the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company's business is provided in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). in addition, the company will provide without charge a copy of its annual report on form 10-k, including financial statements and schedules, upon the written request of any shareholder to merck shareholder services, merck &amp; co., inc., 2000 galloping hill road, k1-3049, kenilworth, nj 07033 u.s.a. the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these 18 table of contents forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to the company's marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or claims by third parties of infringement against the company. the company defends its patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated ndas with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by the company. the company normally responds by defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other companies' patents, potential legislation relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in a more general weakening of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. a chart listing the patent protection for certain of the company's marketed products, and u.s. patent protection for candidates under review and phase 3 candidates is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of market exclusivity can have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. for example, pursuant to an agreement with a generic manufacturer, that manufacturer launched in the united states a generic version of zetia in december 2016. in addition, the company lost u.s. patent protection for vytorin in april 2017. as a result, the company experienced a significant and rapid loss of sales of zetia and vytorin in the united states in 2017, which the company expects will continue in 2018. in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for nuvaring will expire in april 2018 and the company anticipates a significant decline in u.s. nuvaring sales thereafter. 19 table of contents key products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as januvia , janumet , keytruda , gardasil/gardasil 9 and isentress . as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-approval trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. such events could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any such products. for example, in 2018, the company anticipates that sales of zepatier will be materially unfavorably affected by increasing competition and declining patient volumes. the company also anticipates that sales of zostavax will be materially unfavorably affected due to competition. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products that it may develop through collaborations and joint ventures and products that it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. 20 table of contents the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions. failure to successfully develop and market new products in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's products, including products in development, cannot be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu and japan. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-approval phase 4 trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; 21 table of contents changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following in the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan's pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower cost generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures that encourage the use of generic and biosimilar products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. 22 table of contents the company faces continued pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces continued pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the aca, and (iii) state activities aimed at increasing price transparency. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, in the u.s., larger customers may, in the future, ask for and receive higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. the company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. in order to provide information about the company's pricing practices, the company recently posted on its website its pricing action transparency report for the united states for the years 2010 - 2017. the report provides the company's average annual list price and net price increases across the company's u.s. portfolio dating back to 2010. the report shows that the company's average annual net price increases (after taking sales deductions such as rebates, discounts and returns into account) across the u.s. human health portfolio have been in the low to mid-single digits from 2010 - 2016. in 2017, the average net price across the company's portfolio declined by 1.9%, reflecting specific in-year dynamics, including the impact of loss of patent protection for three major merck medicines. additionally, the weighted average annual discount rate has been steadily increasing over time, reflecting the competitive market for branded medicines and the impact of the aca. in 2017, the company's gross u.s. sales were reduced by 45.1% as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu and japan, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to continue in the future. the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by the executive branch, congress and state legislatures. in 2010, the united states enacted major health care reform legislation in the form of the aca. various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. with respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340b drug discount program. the law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). in 2017, the company's revenue was reduced by $385 million due to this requirement. beginning in 2019, the 50% point of service discount will increase to a 70% point of service discount in the coverage gap, as a result of the balanced budget act of 2018. in addition, the 70% point of service discount will be extended to biosimilar products. also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. the total annual industry fee was $4.0 billion in 2017 and will be $4.1 billion in 2018. the fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as medicare and medicaid. in 2017, the company recorded $210 million of costs for this annual fee. on january 21, 2016, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) issued the medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the aca effective april 1, 2016. the rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug 23 table of contents manufacturers are required to pay to state medicaid programs. the impact of changes resulting from the issuance of the rule is not material to merck, at this time. however, the company is still awaiting guidance from cms on two aspects of the rule that were deferred for later implementation. these include a definition of what constitutes a product line extension' and a delay in the participation of the u.s. territories in the medicaid drug rebate program until april 1, 2020. the company will evaluate the financial impact of these two elements when they become effective. the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. in 2017, the company experienced a network cyber-attack that led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. the company could be a target of future cyber-attacks. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and complex information technology systems and computing infrastructure (collectively, it systems ) to conduct critical operations. disruption, degradation, or manipulation of these it systems through intentional or accidental means could impact key business processes. cyber-attacks against the company's it systems could result in exposure of confidential information, the modification of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. misuse of these it systems could result in the disclosure of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade secrets, intellectual property, or other confidential business information. the company continues to leverage new and innovative technologies across the enterprise to improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business processes; the use of which can create new risks. on june 27, 2017, the company experienced a network cyber-attack that led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. all of the company's manufacturing sites are now operational, manufacturing active pharmaceutical ingredient (api), formulating, packaging and shipping product. the company's external manufacturing was not impacted. throughout this time, merck continued to fulfill orders and ship product. due to the cyber-attack, as anticipated, the company was unable to fulfill orders for certain products in certain markets, which had an unfavorable effect on sales in 2017 of approximately $260 million. in addition, the company recorded manufacturing-related expenses, primarily unfavorable manufacturing variances, in materials and production costs, as well as expenses related to remediation efforts in marketing and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, which aggregated $285 million in 2017, net of insurance recoveries of approximately $45 million. due to a residual backlog of orders, the company anticipates that in 2018 sales will be unfavorably affected in certain markets by approximately $200 million from the cyber-attack. merck does not expect a significant impairment to the value of intangible assets related to marketed products or inventories as a result of the cyber-attack. the company has insurance coverage insuring against costs resulting from cyber-attacks and has received proceeds. however, there may be disputes with the insurers about the availability of the insurance coverage for claims related to this incident. additionally, the temporary production shut-down from the cyber-attack contributed to the company's inability to meet higher than expected demand for gardasil 9, which resulted in merck's decision to borrow doses of gardasil 9 from the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention pediatric vaccine stockpile. the company subsequently replenished a portion of the borrowed doses in 2017. the net effect of the borrowing and subsequent partial replenishment was a reduction in sales of $125 million in 2017. the company anticipates it will replenish the remaining borrowed doses in the second half of 2018. the company has implemented a variety of measures to further enhance its systems to guard against similar attacks in the future, and also is pursuing an enterprise-wide effort to enhance the company's resiliency against future cyber-attacks, including incidents similar to the june 2017 attack. the objective of these efforts is not only to protect against future cyber-attacks, but also to improve the speed of the company's recovery from such attacks and enable continued business operations to the greatest extent possible during any recovery period. although the aggregate impact of cyber-attacks and network disruptions, including the june 2017 cyber-attack, on the company's operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the company continues to be a 24 table of contents target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. the company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of company it systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and it systems will be successful in preventing disruptions to its operations, including its manufacturing, research and sales operations. any such disruption could result in loss of revenue, or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the company's or the company's third party providers' databases or it systems and could also result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company and potentially substantial remediation costs. changes in laws and regulations could materially adversely affect the company's business. all aspects of the company's business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, there is significant uncertainty about the future of the aca and health care laws in general in the united states. the company is participating in the debate and monitoring how any proposed changes could affect its business. the company is unable to predict the likelihood of changes to the aca. depending on the nature of any repeal and replacement of the aca, such actions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, financial condition or business. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. uncertainty in global economic and geopolitical conditions may result in a slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in the united states, pricing pressures continue on many of the company's products and, in several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the company's revenue performance in 2017. the company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in japan that will occur again in 2018, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2018. if credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company's results of operations. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, including the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the united states or other governments; foreign exchange fluctuations; 25 table of contents diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. for example, in 2017, the company's lone manufacturing plant in puerto rico was negatively affected by hurricane maria. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of the referendum, the british government has begun negotiating the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu. although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries, increased regulatory complexities, and cross boarder labor issues that could adversely impact the company's business operations in the uk. failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect its ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. the company's success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. the company cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. in the past, the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. in addition, the network cyber-attack experienced by the company in june 2017 led to a disruption of the company's operations, including its manufacturing operations. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the company. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and, if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. in addition, in china, commercial and economic conditions may adversely affect the company's growth prospects in that market. while the company continues to believe that china represents an important growth opportunity, these events, coupled with heightened scrutiny of the health care industry, may continue to have an impact on product pricing and market access generally. the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. 26 table of contents for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to maintain the company's presence in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company's operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows as occurred with respect to venezuela in 2015 and 2016. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and forwards and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, such as tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. further, on december 22, 2017, the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (tcja) became law. the final impact of the tcja on the company may differ from the estimates reported, possibly materially, due to such factors as changes in interpretations and assumptions made, additional guidance that may be issued, and actions taken by the company as a result of the tcja, among others. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary 27 table of contents destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics and vaccines carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics and vaccines, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics and vaccines, including: there may be limited access to, and supply of, normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics and vaccines are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates, and fda approval is generally required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics and vaccines, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic and vaccine must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics and vaccines are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics and vaccines cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to variability in the manufacturing process and could lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, which allegations would be reviewed through a standard investigation process that could lead to closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. the company is subject to a substantial number of product liability claims. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below for more information on the company's current product liability litigation. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely 28 table of contents benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. social media platforms present risks and challenges. the inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. in addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the company or its products on any social networking web site could damage the company's reputation, brand image and goodwill. further, the disclosure of non-public company-sensitive information by the company's workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. although there is an internal company social media policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand also presents new challenges. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning, or negative variations of any of the foregoing. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic and/or biosimilar products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. 29 table of contents efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. cyber-attacks on the company's information technology systems, which could disrupt the company's operations. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 20 cautionary factors that may affect future results 30 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2018 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $135 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2018 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. at december 31, 2018, approximately 14,500 people were employed in the company's research activities. the company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. the company is committed to ensuring that externally sourced programs remain an important 12 table of contents component of its pipeline strategy, with a focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company also reviews its pipeline to examine candidates that may provide more value through out-licensing. the company continues to evaluate certain late-stage clinical development and platform technology assets to determine their out-licensing or sale potential. the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, neurosciences, obesity, pain, respiratory diseases, and vaccines. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application (nda) for a drug or the biologics license application (bla) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologic that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v (pdufa), the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a complete response letter (crl) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving 13 table of contents a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. in addition, under the generating antibiotic incentives now act, the fda may grant qualified infectious disease product (qidp) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. qidp designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including priority review of the nda when filed, eligibility for fast track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the food, drug and cosmetic act. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application (maa) with the european medicines agency (ema). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the pharmaceuticals and medical devices agency in japan, health canada, ag ncia nacional de vigil ncia sanat ria in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, therapeutic goods administration in australia and china food and drug administration. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. keytruda is an approved anti-pd-1 therapy in clinical development for expanded indications in different cancer types. in february 2019, the fda accepted and granted priority review for a supplemental bla for keytruda in combination with inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. this supplemental bla is based on findings from the phase 3 keynote-426 trial, which demonstrated that keytruda in combination with axitinib, as compared to sunitinib, significantly improved overall survival (os) and progression-free survival (pfs) in the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma. these data were presented at the american society for clinical oncology (asco) genitourinary cancers symposium in 14 table of contents february 2019. the supplemental bla also included supporting data from the phase 1b keynote-035 trial. the fda set a pdufa date of june 20, 2019. merck has filed data from keynote-426 with regulatory authorities worldwide. in february 2019, the committee for medicinal products for human use of the ema adopted a positive opinion recommending keytruda, in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel, for the first-line treatment of metastatic squamous nsclc in adults. this recommendation is based on results from the pivotal phase 3 keynote-407 trial, which enrolled patients regardless of pd-l1 tumor expression status. the trial showed a significant improvement in os and pfs for patients taking keytruda in combination with chemotherapy (carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel) compared with chemotherapy alone. if approved, this would mark the first approval in europe for an anti-pd-1 therapy in combination with chemotherapy for adults with metastatic squamous nsclc. in october 2018, the fda approved keytruda in combination with carboplatin-paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel as a first-line treatment for metastatic squamous nsclc, regardless of pd-l1 expression. in december 2018, the fda extended the action date for the supplemental bla seeking approval for keytruda as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic nsclc in patients whose tumors express pd-l1 (tps 1%) without egfr or alk genomic tumor aberrations. the supplemental bla is based on results of the phase 3 keynote-042 trial where keytruda monotherapy demonstrated a significant improvement in os compared with chemotherapy in this patient population. the company submitted additional data and analyses to the fda, which constituted a major amendment and extended the pdufa date by three months to april 11, 2019. merck continues to work closely with the fda during the review of this supplemental bla. in february 2019, the fda accepted and granted priority review for a supplemental bla for keytruda as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with advanced small-cell lung cancer (sclc) whose disease has progressed after two or more lines of prior therapy. this supplemental bla, which is seeking accelerated approval for this new indication, is based on data from the sclc cohorts of the phase 2 keynote-158 and phase 1b keynote-028 trials. the fda set a pdufa date of june 17, 2019. keytruda is also being studied in combination with chemotherapy in the ongoing phase 3 keynote-604 study in patients with newly diagnosed extensive stage sclc. in february 2019, the fda accepted a supplemental bla for keytruda as monotherapy or in combination with platinum and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic hnscc. this supplemental bla is based in part on data from the pivotal phase 3 keynote-048 trial where keytruda demonstrated a significant improvement in os compared with the standard of care, as monotherapy in patients whose tumors expressed pd-l1 with combined positive score (cps) 20 and cps 1 and in combination with chemotherapy in the total patient population. these data were presented at the european society for medical oncology (esmo) 2018 congress. the fda granted priority review to the supplemental bla and set a pdufa date of june 10, 2019. keynote-048 also serves as the confirmatory trial for keynote-012, a phase 1b study which supported the previous accelerated approval for keytruda as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic hnscc with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. in november 2018, merck announced that the phase 3 keynote-181 trial investigating keytruda as monotherapy in the second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic esophageal or esophagogastric junction carcinoma met a primary endpoint of os in patients whose tumors expressed pd-l1 (cps 10). in this pivotal study, treatment with keytruda resulted in a statistically significant improvement in os compared to chemotherapy (paclitaxel, docetaxel or irinotecan) in patients with cps 10, regardless of histology. the primary endpoint of os was also evaluated in patients with squamous cell histology and in the entire intention-to-treat study population. while directionally favorable, statistical significance for os was not met in these two patient groups. per the statistical analysis plan, the key secondary endpoints of pfs and objective response rate (orr) were not formally tested, as os was not reached in the full intention-to-treat study population. these results were presented in january 2019 at the asco gastrointestinal cancers symposium and have been submitted for regulatory review. additionally, keytruda has received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda for the treatment of high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. the fda's breakthrough therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. 15 table of contents in october 2018, merck announced the first presentation of results from an interim analysis of keynote-057, a phase 2 trial evaluating keytruda for previously treated patients with high-risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. an interim analysis of the study's primary endpoint showed a complete response rate of nearly 40% at three months with keytruda in patients whose disease was unresponsive to bacillus calmette-gu rin therapy, the current standard of care for this disease, and who were ineligible for or who refused to undergo radical cystectomy. these results, as well as other study findings, were presented at the esmo 2018 congress. in february 2019, merck announced that the pivotal phase 3 keynote-240 trial evaluating keytruda , plus best supportive care, for the treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who were previously treated with systemic therapy, did not meet its co-primary endpoints of os and pfs compared with placebo plus best supportive care. in the final analysis of the study, there was an improvement in os for patients treated with keytruda compared to placebo, however these os results did not meet statistical significance per the pre-specified statistical plan. results for pfs were also directionally favorable in the keytruda arm compared with placebo but did not reach statistical significance. the key secondary endpoint of orr was not formally tested, since superiority was not reached for os or pfs. results will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting and have been shared with the fda for discussion. the keytruda clinical development program consists of more than 900 clinical trials, including more than 600 trials that combine keytruda with other cancer treatments. these studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: bladder, cervical, colorectal, esophageal, gastric, head and neck, hepatocellular, hodgkin lymphoma, non-hodgkin lymphoma, melanoma, mesothelioma, nasopharyngeal, nsclc, ovarian, pmbcl, prostate, renal, small-cell lung and triple-negative breast, many of which are currently in phase 3 clinical development. further trials are being planned for other cancers. lynparza, is an oral parp inhibitor currently approved for certain types of ovarian and breast cancer. in july 2017, merck and astrazeneca entered into a global strategic oncology collaboration to co-develop and co-commercialize astrazeneca's lynparza for multiple cancer types. in april 2018, merck and astrazeneca announced that the ema validated for review the maa for lynparza for use in patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious brca -mutated, her2-negative metastatic breast cancer who have been previously treated with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant, adjuvant or metastatic setting. this was the first regulatory submission for a parp inhibitor in breast cancer in europe. lynparza tablets are also under review in the eu as a maintenance treatment in patients with newly-diagnosed, brca -mutated advanced ovarian cancer who were in complete or partial response following first-line standard platinum-based chemotherapy. this submission was based on positive results from the pivotal phase 3 solo-1 trial. the trial showed a statistically-significant and clinically-meaningful improvement in pfs for lynparza compared to placebo, reducing the risk of disease progression or death by 70% in patients with newly-diagnosed, brca -mutated advanced ovarian cancer who were in complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy. in december 2018, merck and astrazeneca announced positive results from the randomized, open-label, controlled, phase 3 solo-3 trial of lynparza tablets in patients with relapsed ovarian cancer after two or more lines of treatment. the trial was conducted as a post-approval commitment in agreement with the fda. results from the trial showed brca -mutated advanced ovarian cancer patients treated with lynparza following two or more prior lines of chemotherapy demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in the primary endpoint of orr and the key secondary endpoint of pfs compared to chemotherapy. merck and astrazeneca plan to discuss these results with the fda. mk-7655a is a combination of relebactam, an investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor, and imipenem/cilastatin (an approved carbapenem antibiotic). in february 2019, merck announced that the fda accepted for priority review an nda for mk-7655a for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections and complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by certain susceptible gram-negative bacteria in adults with limited or no alternative therapies available. the pdufa date is july 16, 2019. in april 2018, merck announced that a pivotal phase 3 study of mk-7655a demonstrated a favorable overall response in the treatment of certain imipenem-non-susceptible bacterial infections, the primary endpoint, with lower treatment-emergent nephrotoxicity (kidney toxicity), a secondary endpoint, compared to a colistin (colistimethate sodium) plus imipenem/cilastatin regimen. the fda had previously designated this combination a qualified infectious disease product with designated fast track status for the treatment of hospital- 16 table of contents acquired bacterial pneumonia, ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. v920 (rvsv g-zebov-gp, live attenuated), is an investigational ebola zaire disease vaccine candidate being studied in large scale phase 2/3 clinical trials. in december 2015, merck announced that the application for emergency use assessment and listing (eual) for v920 was accepted for review by the world health organization (who). according to the who, the eual process is designed to expedite the availability of vaccines needed for public health emergencies such as another outbreak of ebola. the who decision to grant v920 eual status will be based on data regarding quality, safety, and efficacy/effectiveness; as well as a risk/benefit analysis for emergency use. while eual designation allows for emergency use, the vaccine remains investigational and has not yet been licensed for commercial distribution. in july 2016, merck announced that the fda granted v920 breakthrough therapy designation, and that the ema granted the vaccine candidate prime (priority medicines) status. in november 2018, merck announced that it has started the submission of a rolling bla to the fda for v920. this rolling submission was made pursuant to the fda's breakthrough therapy designation. merck expects the rolling submission of the bla to be completed in 2019. the company also intends to file v920 with the ema in 2019. in february 2019, merck announced that the fda accepted for priority review a supplemental nda for zerbaxa to treat adult patients with nosocomial pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia, caused by certain susceptible gram-negative microorganisms. the pdufa date is june 3, 2019. zerbaxa is also under review for this indication by the ema. zerbaxa is currently approved in the united states for the treatment of adult patients with complicated urinary tract infections caused by certain susceptible gram-negative microorganisms, and is also indicated, in combination with metronidazole, for the treatment of adult patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by certain susceptible gram-negative and gram-positive microorganisms. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has several drug candidates in phase 3 clinical development in addition to the keytruda programs discussed above. mk-7264, gefapixant, is a selective, non-narcotic, orally-administered p2x3-receptor agonist being investigated in phase 3 trials for the treatment of refractory, chronic cough and in a phase 2 trial for the treatment of women with endometriosis-related pain. lenvima, is an orally available tyrosine kinase inhibitor currently approved for certain types of thyroid cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and in combination for certain patients with renal cell carcinoma. in march 2018, merck and eisai entered into a strategic collaboration for the worldwide co-development and co-commercialization of lenvima. under the agreement, merck and eisai will develop and commercialize lenvima jointly, both as monotherapy and in combination with keytruda . per the agreement, the companies will jointly initiate clinical studies evaluating the keytruda /lenvima combination to support 11 potential indications in six types of cancer (endometrial cancer, nsclc, hepatocellular carcinoma, head and neck cancer, bladder cancer and melanoma), as well as a basket trial targeting multiple cancer types. the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation for keytruda in combination with lenvima for the potential treatment of patients with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma and for the potential treatment of certain patients with advanced and/or metastatic non-microsatellite instability high/proficient mismatch repair endometrial carcinoma. mk-1242, vericiguat, is an investigational treatment for heart failure being studied in patients suffering from chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fracture (phase 3 clinical trial) and from chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fracture (phase 2 clinical trial). the development of vericiguat is part of a worldwide strategic collaboration between merck and bayer. v114 is an investigational polyvalent conjugate vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease. in june 2018, merck initiated the first phase 3 study in the adult population for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease. currently five phase 3 adult studies are ongoing, including studies in healthy adults 50 years of age or older, adults with risk factors for pneumococcal disease, those infected with hiv, and those who are recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. in october 2018, merck began the first phase 3 study in the pediatric population. currently, three studies are ongoing, including studies in healthy infants and in children afflicted with sickle cell disease. in january 2019, merck announced that v114 received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the vaccine serotypes in pediatric patients 6 weeks to 18 years of age. 17 table of contents as a result of changes in the herpes zoster vaccine environment, merck is ending development of v212, its investigational vaccine for the prevention of shingles in immunocompromised patients. the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 22, 2019. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area (other than with respect to cancer and certain other indications) and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review cancer cancer new molecular entities/vaccines mk-3475 keytruda mk-3475 keytruda bacterial infection advanced solid tumors breast (october 2015) mk-7655a relebactam+imipenem/cilastatin cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma cervical (october 2018) (eu) (u.s.) prostate colorectal (november 2015) ebola vaccine mk-7902 lenvima (1) esophageal (december 2015) v920 (4) (u.s.) biliary tract gastric (may 2015) (eu) non-small-cell lung hepatocellular (may 2016) (eu) certain supplemental filings v937 cavatak mesothelioma (may 2018) cancer melanoma nasopharyngeal (april 2016) mk-3475 keytruda mk-7690 ovarian (december 2018) first-line advanced renal cell carcinoma colorectal (2) renal (october 2016) (eu) (keynote-426) (u.s.) mk-7339 lynparza (1) small-cell lung (may 2017) (eu) first-line metastatic squamous non-small- advanced solid tumors mk-7902 lenvima (1,2) cell lung cancer (keynote-407) (eu) cytomegalovirus vaccine endometrial (june 2018) first-line metastatic non-small-cell lung v160 mk-7339 lynparza (1) cancer (keynote-042) (u.s.) (eu) diabetes mellitus pancreatic (december 2014) third-line advanced small-cell lung mk-8521 (3) prostate (april 2017) cancer (keynote-158) (u.s.) hiv-1 infection cough first-line head and neck cancer mk-8591 mk-7264 (gefapixant) (march 2018) (keynote-048) (u.s.) pediatric neurofibromatosis type-1 heart failure alternative dosing regimen mk-5618 (selumetinib) (1) mk-1242 (vericiguat) (september 2016) (1) (q6w) (eu) respiratory syncytial virus pneumoconjugate vaccine mk-7339 lynparza (1) mk-1654 v114 (june 2018) second-line metastatic breast cancer (eu) schizophrenia first-line advanced ovarian cancer (eu) mk-8189 habp/vabp (5) mk-7625a zerbaxa (u.s.) footnotes: (1) being developed in a collaboration. (2) being developed in combination with keytruda. (3) development is currently on hold. (4) rolling submission. (5) habp - hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia / vabp - ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia employees as of december 31, 2018, the company had approximately 69,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 25,400 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. restructuring activities in 2010 and 2013, the company commenced actions under global restructuring programs designed to streamline its cost structure. the actions under these programs include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and 18 table of contents development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. the company also continues to reduce its global real estate footprint and improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. since inception of the programs through december 31, 2018, merck has eliminated approximately 45,510 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. the company has substantially completed the actions under these programs. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16 million in 2018 , and are estimated at $57 million in the aggregate for the years 2019 through 2023 . these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $71 million and $82 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $60 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states as a percentage of total company sales were 57% of sales in 2018 , 57% of sales in 2017 and 54% of sales in 2016 . the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. in addition, the company will provide without charge a copy of its annual report on form 10-k, including financial statements and schedules, upon the written request of any shareholder to the office of the secretary, merck &amp; co., inc., 2000 galloping hill road, k1-4157, kenilworth, nj 07033 u.s.a. the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any shareholder who requests it from the company. 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to the company's marketing of human health and animal health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or claims by third parties of infringement against the company. the company defends its patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated ndas with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by the company. the company normally responds by defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other companies' patents, potential legislation relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in a more general weakening of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively affect product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. a chart listing the patent protection for certain of the company's marketed products, and u.s. patent protection for candidates under review and in phase 3 clinical development is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of market exclusivity can have a material adverse effect 20 table of contents on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. for example, pursuant to an agreement with a generic manufacturer, that manufacturer launched in the united states a generic version of zetia in december 2016. in addition, the company lost u.s. patent protection for vytorin in april 2017. as a result, the company experienced a significant and rapid loss of sales of zetia and vytorin in the united states in 2017, which continued in 2018. furthermore, the patents that provide u.s. and eu market exclusivity for noxafil will expire in july 2019 and december 2019, respectively, and the company anticipates a significant decline in u.s. and eu noxafil sales thereafter. key products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as keytruda, januvia , janumet , gardasil/gardasil 9 and bridion . as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-approval trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. such events could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any such products. for example, in 2018, sales of zepatier were materially unfavorably affected by increasing competition and declining patient volumes. sales of zostavax were also materially unfavorably affected due to competition. the company expects that competition will continue to adversely affect the sales of these products. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products that it may develop through collaborations and joint ventures and products that it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products 21 table of contents sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, or the anticipated labeling, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions or certain collaborations. failure to successfully develop and market new products in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company's products, including products in development, cannot be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and the manufacturing and marketing of its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu, japan and china. in the united states, the fda administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, reduction in the cost of drugs. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the products in that jurisdiction. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches the market, certain developments following regulatory approval may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: results in post-approval phase 4 trials or other studies; 22 table of contents the re-review of products that are already marketed; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following in the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan's pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower cost generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures that encourage the use of generic and biosimilar products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use, have better insurance coverage or reimbursement levels or be more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience 23 table of contents difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company faces continued pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces continued pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the aca, and (iii) state activities aimed at increasing price transparency, including new laws as noted above in item 1. competition and the health care environment health care environment and government regulations. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, in the u.s., larger customers may, in the future, ask for and receive higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. the company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. in order to provide information about the company's pricing practices, the company annually posts on its website its pricing transparency report for the united states. the report provides the company's average annual list price and net price increases across the company's u.s. portfolio dating back to 2010. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu, japan and china have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to continue in the future. the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by the executive branch, congress and state legislatures. in 2010, the united states enacted major health care reform legislation in the form of the aca. various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. with respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340b drug discount program. the law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). in 2018, the company's revenue was reduced by $365 million due to this requirement. beginning in 2019, the 50% point of service discount will increase to a 70% point of service discount in the coverage gap, as a result of the balanced budget act of 2018. in addition, the 70% point of service discount will be extended to biosimilar products. also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. the total annual industry fee was $4.1 billion in 2018 and will be $2.8 billion in 2019. the fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as medicare and medicaid. in 2018, the company recorded $124 million of costs for this annual fee. in 2016, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) issued the medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the aca effective april 1, 2016. the rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state medicaid programs. the impact of changes resulting from the issuance of the rule is not material to merck, at this time. however, the company is still awaiting guidance from cms on two aspects of the rule that were deferred for later implementation. these include a definition of what constitutes a product line extension' and a delay 24 table of contents in the participation of the u.s. territories in the medicaid drug rebate program until april 1, 2020. the company will evaluate the financial impact of these two elements when they become effective. the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. in 2017, the company experienced a network cyber-attack that led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. the company could be a target of future cyber-attacks. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and complex information technology systems and computing infrastructure (collectively, it systems ) to conduct critical operations. disruption, degradation, or manipulation of these it systems through intentional or accidental means could impact key business processes. cyber-attacks against the company's it systems could result in exposure of confidential information, the modification of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. misuse of these it systems could result in the disclosure of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade secrets, intellectual property, or other confidential business information. the company continues to leverage new and innovative technologies across the enterprise to improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business processes; the use of which can create new risks. in 2017, the company experienced a network cyber-attack that led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. due to the cyber-attack, the company was unable to fulfill orders for certain products in certain markets, which had an unfavorable effect on sales in 2017 of approximately $260 million. in addition, the company recorded manufacturing-related expenses, primarily unfavorable manufacturing variances, in cost of sales , as well as expenses related to remediation efforts in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, which aggregated $285 million in 2017, net of insurance recoveries of approximately $45 million. due to a residual backlog of orders, 2018 sales were unfavorably affected in certain markets by approximately $150 million from the cyber-attack. the company has insurance coverage insuring against costs resulting from cyber-attacks and has received proceeds. however, there are disputes with certain of the insurers about the availability of some of the insurance coverage for claims related to the 2017 cyber-attack. the company has implemented a variety of measures to further enhance and modernize its systems to guard against similar attacks in the future, and also is pursuing an enterprise-wide effort to enhance the company's resiliency against future cyber-attacks, including incidents similar to the 2017 attack. the objective of these efforts is not only to protect against future cyber-attacks, but also to improve the speed of the company's recovery from such attacks and enable continued business operations to the greatest extent possible during any recovery period. although the aggregate impact of cyber-attacks and network disruptions, including the 2017 cyber-attack, on the company's operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the company continues to be a target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. the company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of company it systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and it systems will be successful in preventing disruptions to its operations, including its manufacturing, research and sales operations. any such disruption could result in loss of revenue, or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the company's or the company's third party providers' databases or it systems and could also result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company and potentially substantial remediation costs. the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws and regulations. the company is currently subject to a number of government laws and regulations and, in the future, could become subject to new government laws and regulations. the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, or the negative results of non-compliance, could adversely affect the business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects of the company; these laws and regulations include (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the united states or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts or fees; (ii) the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other anti-bribery and corruption laws; (iii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental 25 table of contents decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, and access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iv) changes in intellectual property laws; (v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) new and increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement, particularly in the eu and the united states; (vii) legislative mandates or preferences for local manufacturing of pharmaceutical or vaccine products; (viii) emerging and new global regulatory requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to healthcare professionals; (ix) environmental regulations; and (x) the potential impact of importation restrictions, embargoes, trade sanctions and legislative and/or other regulatory changes. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with cost-reduction measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. uncertainty in global economic and geopolitical conditions may result in a slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in the united states, pricing pressures continue on many of the company's products and, in several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. the company anticipates these pricing actions will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2019. if credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company's results of operations. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, including the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the united states or other governments; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. for example, in 2017, the company's lone manufacturing plant in puerto rico was negatively affected by hurricane maria. in 2016, the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of that referendum, the british government has been in the process of negotiating the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu. while the company has taken actions and made certain contingency plans for scenarios in which the uk and the eu do not reach a mutually satisfactory understanding as to that relationship, it is not possible at this time to predict whether there will be any such understanding, or if such an understanding is reached, whether its terms will vary in ways that result in greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries, increased regulatory complexities, and/or cross border labor issues that could materially adversely impact the company's business operations in the uk. 26 table of contents failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect the company's ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. the company's success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. the company cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. in the past, the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. in addition, the network cyber-attack experienced by the company in june 2017 led to a disruption of the company's operations, including its manufacturing operations. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. in addition, the company could experience difficulties or delays in manufacturing its products caused by natural disasters, such as hurricanes. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the company. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and, if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. the company's business in china has grown rapidly in the past few years, and the importance of china to the company's overall pharmaceutical and vaccines business outside the united states has increased accordingly. continued growth of the company's business in china is dependent upon ongoing development of a favorable environment for innovative pharmaceutical products and vaccines, sustained access for the company's currently marketed products, and the absence of trade impediments or adverse pricing controls. as noted above in healthcare environment , pricing pressure in china has increased as the chinese government has been taking steps to reduce costs, including implementing healthcare reform that has led to the acceleration of generic substitution, where available. in addition, the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to maintain the company's presence in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into business development transactions, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. 27 table of contents since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation could negatively affect the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and forwards and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, or new tax laws, affecting, for example, tax rates, and/or revised tax law interpretations in domestic or foreign jurisdictions. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics and vaccines carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics and vaccines, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, complex, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics and vaccines, including: there may be limited access to, and supply of, normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple 28 table of contents jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics and vaccines are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates, and fda approval is generally required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics and vaccines, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic and vaccine must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics and vaccines are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics and vaccines cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to variability in the manufacturing process and could lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, which allegations would be reviewed through a standard investigation process that could lead to closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. the company is subject to a substantial number of product liability claims. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below for more information on the company's current product liability litigation. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. social media platforms present risks and challenges. the inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. in addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the company or its products on any social networking platforms could damage the company's reputation, brand image and goodwill. further, the disclosure of non-public company-sensitive information by the company's workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. although there is an internal company social media policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand also presents new challenges. 29 table of contents cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning, or negative variations of any of the foregoing. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic and/or biosimilar products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. cyber-attacks on the company's information technology systems, which could disrupt the company's operations. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been 30 table of contents an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 20 cautionary factors that may affect future results 32 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company's important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2019 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $135 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.7 billion in 2019 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company's business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. at december 31, 2019, approximately 15,600 people were employed in the company's research activities. the company prioritizes its research and development efforts and focuses on candidates that it believes represent breakthrough science that will make a difference for patients and payers. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company's research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the 13 table of contents company's research and development resources on candidates the company believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers and delivering the maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality (small molecule, biologics and vaccines) and is building its biologics capabilities. the company is committed to ensuring that externally sourced programs remain an important component of its pipeline strategy, with a focus on supplementing its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as access to new technologies. the company's clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and other metabolic diseases, infectious diseases, neurosciences, pain, respiratory diseases, and vaccines. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through pre-clinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on pre-clinical and clinical experience are included in the nda for a drug or the biologics license application (bla) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company's scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologic that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences pre-clinical testing with that compound. pre-clinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable pre-clinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase 1 studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase 2 studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound's usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2a/2b trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase 2a proof-of-concept stage and a phase 2b dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase 2 trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase 3 trials to confirm the compound's efficacy and safety. another type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design, a study that includes an interim analysis and an adaptation that changes the trial from having features common in a phase 2 study (e.g. multiple dose groups) to a design similar to a phase 3 trial. an adaptive phase 2/3 trial design reduces timelines by eliminating activities which would be required to start a separate study. upon completion of phase 3 trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. pre-clinical testing focuses on the vaccine's safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase 1 clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase 2 studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase 3 trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v (pdufa), the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company's own initiative or the fda's request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter or by issuing a complete response letter (crl) stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a crl, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in 14 table of contents order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the fda has four program designations fast track, breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval, and priority review to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. the fast track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with fda reviewers during the product's development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the nda/bla. a rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the fda on an ongoing basis. the breakthrough therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the fast track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the fda to involve senior managers and experienced staff in the review. the accelerated approval designation allows the fda to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product's clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. the priority review designation means that the fda's goal is to take action on the nda/bla within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. in addition, under the generating antibiotic incentives now act, the fda may grant qualified infectious disease product (qidp) status to antibacterial or antifungal drugs intended to treat serious or life threatening infections including those caused by antibiotic or antifungal resistant pathogens, novel or emerging infectious pathogens, or other qualifying pathogens. qidp designation offers certain incentives for development of qualifying drugs, including priority review of the nda when filed, eligibility for fast track designation, and a five-year extension of applicable exclusivity provisions under the food, drug and cosmetic act. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application (maa) with the european medicines agency (ema). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure in which an application is made to a single member state and, if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. outside of the united states and the eu, the company submits marketing applications to national regulatory authorities. examples of such are the ministry of health, labour and welfare in japan, health canada, ag ncia nacional de vigil ncia sanat ria in brazil, korea food and drug administration in south korea, therapeutic goods administration in australia and the national medical products administration in china. each country has a separate and independent review process and timeline. in many markets, approval times can be longer as the regulatory authority requires approval in a major market, such as the united states or the eu, and issuance of a certificate of pharmaceutical product from that market before initiating their local review process. research and development update the company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. keytruda is an anti-pd-1 therapy approved for the treatment of many cancers that is in clinical development for expanded indications. these approvals were the result of a broad clinical development program that currently consists of more than 1,000 clinical trials, including more than 600 trials that combine keytruda with other cancer treatments. these studies encompass more than 30 cancer types including: biliary tract, cervical, colorectal, cutaneous squamous cell, endometrial, gastric, head and neck, hepatocellular, hodgkin lymphoma, non-hodgkin lymphoma, melanoma, mesothelioma, nasopharyngeal, non-small-cell lung, ovarian, pmbcl, prostate, renal, small-cell lung, triple-negative breast, and urothelial, many of which are currently in phase 3 clinical development. further trials are being planned for other cancers. keytruda is under review in the eu as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with stage iii nsclc who are not candidates for surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation, or metastatic nsclc, and whose tumors express pd-l1 (tps 1%) with no egfr or alk genomic tumor aberrations based on results from the phase 3 keynote-042 trial. 15 table of contents keytruda is under review in japan as monotherapy and in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma based on results from the pivotal phase 3 keynote-062 trial. keytruda is also under review in japan as monotherapy for the second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic esophageal or esophagogastric junction carcinoma based on the results of the phase 3 keynote-181 trial. merck has made the decision to withdraw its type ii variation application for keytruda for this indication in the eu. in october 2019, the fda accepted a supplemental bla seeking use of keytruda for the treatment of patients with recurrent and/or metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cscc) that is not curable by surgery or radiation based on the results of the keynote-629 trial. the fda set a pdufa date of june 29, 2020. in february 2020, merck announced the fda issued a complete response letter (crl) regarding merck's supplemental blas seeking to update the dosing frequency for keytruda to include a 400 mg dose infused over 30 minutes every-six-weeks (q6w) option in multiple indications. the submitted applications are based on pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation data presented at the 2018 american society of clinical oncology (asco) annual meeting. these data supported the ec approval of 400 mg q6w dosing for keytruda monotherapy indications in march 2019. merck is reviewing the letter and will discuss next steps with the fda. additionally, keytruda has received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy for the treatment of high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc) and in combination with enfortumab vedotin, in the first-line setting for the treatment of patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. the fda's breakthrough therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of a candidate that is planned for use, alone or in combination, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. in september 2019, merck announced results from the pivotal neoadjuvant/adjuvant phase 3 keynote-522 trial in patients with early-stage tnbc. the trial investigated a regimen of neoadjuvant keytruda plus chemotherapy, followed by adjuvant keytruda as monotherapy (the keytruda regimen) compared with a regimen of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant placebo (the chemotherapy-placebo regimen). interim findings were presented at the european society for medical oncology (esmo) 2019 congress. in the neoadjuvant phase, keytruda plus chemotherapy resulted in a statistically significant increase in pathological complete response (pcr) versus chemotherapy in patients with early-stage tnbc. the improvement seen when adding keytruda to neoadjuvant chemotherapy was observed regardless of pd-l1 expression. in the other dual primary endpoint of event-free-survival (efs), with a median follow-up of 15.5 months, the keytruda regimen reduced the risk of progression in the neoadjuvant phase and recurrence in the adjuvant phase compared with the chemotherapy-placebo regimen. merck continues to discuss interim analysis data from keynote-522 with regulatory authorities. the keytruda breast cancer clinical development program encompasses several internal and external collaborative studies. in february 2020, merck announced that the pivotal phase 3 keynote-355 trial investigating keytruda in combination with chemotherapy met one of its dual primary endpoints of progression-free survival (pfs) in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mtnbc) whose tumors expressed pd-l1 (cps 10). based on an interim analysis conducted by an independent data monitoring committee (dmc), first-line treatment with keytruda in combination with chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel, paclitaxel or gemcitabine/carboplatin) demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in pfs compared to chemotherapy alone in these patients. based on the recommendation of the dmc, the trial will continue without changes to evaluate the other dual primary endpoint of overall survival (os). in may 2019, merck announced that the phase 3 keynote-119 trial evaluating keytruda as monotherapy for the second- or third-line treatment of patients with metastatic tnbc did not meet its pre-specified primary endpoint of superior os compared to chemotherapy. other endpoints were not formally tested per the study protocol because the primary endpoint of os was not met. in june 2019, merck announced full results from the pivotal phase 3 keynote-062 trial evaluating keytruda as monotherapy and in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. in the monotherapy arm of the study, keytruda met a primary endpoint by demonstrating noninferiority to chemotherapy, the current standard of care, for os in patients whose tumors expressed pd-l1 (cps 1). in the combination arm of keynote-062, keytruda plus chemotherapy was not found to be statistically superior for os (cps 1 or cps 10) or pfs (cps 1) compared with chemotherapy alone. results were presented at the 2019 american society of clinical oncology (asco) annual meeting. in september 2017, the fda 16 table of contents approved keytruda as a third-line treatment for previously treated patients with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer whose tumors express pd-l1 (cps 1) as determined by an fda-approved test. keynote-062 was a potential confirmatory trial for this accelerated, third-line approval. in addition to keynote-062, additional first-line, phase 3 studies in merck's gastric clinical program include keynote-811 and keynote-859, as well as keynote-585 in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment setting. in january 2020, merck announced that the phase 3 keynote-604 trial investigating keytruda in combination with chemotherapy met one of its dual primary endpoints of pfs in the first-line treatment of patients with extensive stage sclc. at the final analysis of the study, there was also an improvement in os for patients treated with keytruda in combination with chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone; however, these os results did not meet statistical significance per the pre-specified statistical plan. results will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting and discussed with regulatory authorities. lynparza, is an oral parp inhibitor currently approved for certain types of advanced ovarian, breast and pancreatic cancers being co-developed for multiple cancer types as part of a collaboration with astrazeneca. lynparza is under review in the eu as a first-line maintenance monotherapy for patients with g brca m metastatic pancreatic cancer whose disease has not progressed following first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. lynparza was approved for this indication by the fda in december 2019 based on results from the phase 3 polo trial. a decision from the ema is expected in the second half of 2020. in january 2020, the fda accepted a supplemental nda for lynparza in combination with bevacizumab for the maintenance treatment of women with advanced ovarian cancer whose disease showed a complete or partial response to first-line treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy and bevacizumab based on the results from the pivotal phase 3 paola-1 trial. a pdufa date is set for the second quarter of 2020. this indication is also under review in the eu. in january 2020, the fda accepted for priority review a supplemental nda for lynparza for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mcrpc) and deleterious or suspected deleterious germline or somatic homologous recombination repair (hrr) gene mutations, who have progressed following prior treatment with a new hormonal agent based on positive results from the phase 3 profound trial. a pdufa date is set for the second quarter of 2020. this indication is also under review in the eu. in june 2019, merck and astrazeneca presented full results from the phase 3 solo-3 trial which evaluated lynparza, compared to chemotherapy, for the treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed patients with g brca m advanced ovarian cancer, who have received two or more prior lines of chemotherapy. the results from the trial showed a statistically-significant and clinically-meaningful improvement in objective response rate (orr) in the lynparza arm compared to the chemotherapy arm. the key secondary endpoint of pfs was also significantly increased in the lynparza arm compared to the chemotherapy arm. the results were presented at the 2019 asco annual meeting. mk-5618, selumetinib, is a mek 1/2 inhibitor being co-developed as part of a strategic collaboration with astrazeneca. selumetinib is under priority review with the fda as a potential new medicine for pediatric patients aged three years and older with neurofibromatosis type 1 (nf1) and symptomatic, inoperable plexiform neurofibromas. this regulatory submission was based on positive results from the national cancer institute cancer therapy evaluation program-sponsored sprint phase 2 stratum 1 trial. a pdufa date is set for the second quarter of 2020. v503 is under review in japan for an initial indication in females for the prevention of certain hpv-related diseases and precursors. in february 2020, the fda accepted for priority review a supplemental bla for gardasil 9 for the prevention of certain head and neck cancers caused by vaccine-type hpv in females and males 9 through 45 years of age. the fda set a pdufa date of june 2020. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has several drug candidates in phase 3 clinical development in addition to the keytruda programs discussed above. lynparza, in addition to the indications under review discussed above, is in phase 3 development in combination with keytruda for the treatment of nsclc. lenvima is an orally available tyrosine kinase inhibitor currently approved for certain types of thyroid cancer, hcc, and in combination for certain patients with rcc being co-developed as part of a strategic collaboration with eisai. pursuant to the agreement, the companies will jointly initiate clinical studies evaluating the keytruda /lenvima combination in six types of cancer (endometrial cancer, nsclc, hcc, hnscc, bladder cancer and melanoma), as well as a basket trial targeting multiple cancer types. the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation 17 table of contents for keytruda in combination with lenvima both for the potential treatment of patients with advanced and/or metastatic rcc and for the potential treatment of patients with unresectable hcc not amenable to locoregional treatment. mk-7264, gefapixant, is a selective, non-narcotic, orally-administered p2x3-receptor antagonist being investigated in phase 3 trials for the treatment of refractory, chronic cough and in a phase 2 trial for the treatment of women with endometriosis-related pain. mk-1242, vericiguat, is a sgc stimulator for the potential treatment of patients with worsening chronic heart failure being developed as part of a worldwide strategic collaboration between merck and bayer. vericiguat is being studied in patients suffering from chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (phase 3 clinical trial) and from chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (phase 2 clinical trial). in november 2019, merck announced that the phase 3 victoria study evaluating the efficacy and safety of vericiguat met the primary efficacy endpoint. vericiguat reduced the risk of the composite endpoint of heart failure hospitalization or cardiovascular death in patients with worsening chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction compared to placebo when given in combination with available heart failure therapies. the results of the victoria study will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting in 2020. v114 is an investigational polyvalent conjugate vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease. in june 2018, merck initiated the first phase 3 study in the adult population for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease. currently six phase 3 adult studies are ongoing, including studies in healthy adults 50 years of age or older, adults with risk factors for pneumococcal disease, those infected with hiv, and those who are recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. in october 2018, merck began the first phase 3 study in the pediatric population. currently, eight studies are ongoing, including studies in healthy infants and in children afflicted with sickle cell disease. v114 has received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the vaccine serotypes in pediatric patients (6 weeks to 18 years of age) and in adults. the chart below reflects the company's research pipeline as of february 21, 2020. candidates shown in phase 3 include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase 3 development. candidates shown in phase 2 include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. except as otherwise noted, candidates in phase 1, additional indications in the same therapeutic area (other than with respect to cancer) and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. 18 table of contents phase 2 phase 3 (phase 3 entry date) under review cancer cancer new molecular entities/vaccines mk-3475 keytruda mk-3475 keytruda pediatric neurofibromatosis type-1 advanced solid tumors biliary tract (september 2019) mk-5618 (selumetinib) (1) (u.s.) mk-6482 breast (october 2015) hpv vaccine renal cell carcinoma cervical (october 2018) (eu) v503 human papillomavirus 9-valent vaccine, mk-7123 (2) colorectal (november 2015) recombinant (jpn) solid tumors cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma certain supplemental filings mk-7339 lynparza (1) (august 2019) (eu) cancer advanced solid tumors endometrial (august 2019) (eu) mk-3475 keytruda mk-7690 (vicriviroc) (2) esophageal (december 2015) (eu) first-line metastatic non-small-cell lung colorectal gastric (may 2015) (eu) cancer (keynote-042) (eu) mk-7902 lenvima (1) hepatocellular (may 2016) (eu) first-line metastatic gastric cancer biliary tract mesothelioma (may 2018) (keynote-062) (jpn) v937 nasopharyngeal (april 2016) recurrent locally advanced or metastatic melanoma ovarian (december 2018) esophageal cancer (keynote-180/181) mk-7684 (2) prostate (may 2019) (jpn) non-small-cell lung small-cell lung (may 2017) (eu) recurrent and/or metastatic cutaneous mk-1026 mk-7339 lynparza (1,2) squamous cell carcinoma hematological malignancies non-small-cell lung (june 2019) (keynote-629) (u.s.) mk-4280 (2) mk-7902 lenvima (1,2) alternative dosing regimen (3) hematological malignancies bladder (may 2019) (q6w) (u.s.) non-small-cell lung endometrial (june 2018) (eu) mk-7339 lynparza (1) mk-1308 (2) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma first-line g brca m pancreatic cancer non-small-cell lung (february 2020) (polo) (eu) mk-5890 (2) melanoma (march 2019) first-line maintenance newly diagnosed non-small-cell lung non-small-cell lung (march 2019) advanced ovarian cancer (paola) cytomegalovirus cough (u.s.) (eu) v160 mk-7264 (gefapixant) (march 2018) metastatic prostate cancer (profound) hiv-1 infection heart failure (u.s.) (eu) mk-8591 (islatravir) mk-1242 (vericiguat) (september 2016) (1) footnotes: overgrowth syndrome hiv-1 infection (1) being developed in a collaboration. mk-7075 mk-8591a (islatravir/doravirine) (february 2020) (2) being developed in combination with pediatric neurofibromatosis type-1 pneumoconjugate vaccine keytruda. mk-5618 (selumetinib) (1) (eu) v114 (june 2018) (3) the company received a crl in february respiratory syncytial virus 2020. merck is reviewing the letter and will mk-1654 discuss next steps with the fda. schizophrenia mk-8189 employees as of december 31, 2019, the company had approximately 71,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 26,000 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. restructuring activities in early 2019, merck approved a new global restructuring program (restructuring program) as part of a worldwide initiative focused on further optimizing the company's manufacturing and supply network, as well as reducing its global real estate footprint. this program is a continuation of the company's plant rationalization, builds on prior restructuring programs and does not include any actions associated with the planned spin-off of newco. as the company continues to evaluate its global footprint and overall operating model, it has subsequently identified additional actions under the restructuring program, and could identify further actions over time. the actions currently contemplated under the restructuring program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2023. actions under previous global restructuring programs have been substantially completed. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $19 million in 2019 and are estimated at $47 million in the aggregate for the years 2020 through 2024 . these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs and, in management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $67 million and $71 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome 19 table of contents of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $58 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company's facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company's business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company's operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states as a percentage of total company sales were 57% of sales in each of 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . the company's worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. available information the company's internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the address of that website is www.sec.gov. in addition, the company will provide without charge a copy of its annual report on form 10-k, including financial statements and schedules, upon the written request of any shareholder to the office of the secretary, merck &amp; co., inc., 2000 galloping hill road, k1-4157, kenilworth, nj 07033 u.s.a. the company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors' four standing committees are available on the company's website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any shareholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company's securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business could be materially adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to the company's marketing of human health and animal health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing 20 table of contents and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company's business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or claims by third parties of infringement against the company. the company defends its patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated ndas with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by the company. the company normally responds by defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company's results of operations. further, court decisions relating to other companies' patents, potential legislation in both the u.s. and certain foreign markets relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in a more general weakening of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available. the company's results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has launched commercially successful products that replace the lost sales. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively affect product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. a chart listing the patent protection for certain of the company's marketed products, and u.s. patent protection for candidates in phase 3 clinical development is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. as the company's products lose market exclusivity, the company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. loss of patent protection for one of the company's products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company's sales, the loss of market exclusivity can have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. for example, the patents that provided u.s. and eu market exclusivity for certain forms of noxafil expired in july 2019 and december 2019, respectively, and the company anticipates a significant decline in u.s. and eu noxafil sales. also, the patent that provided u.s. market exclusivity for nuvaring expired in april 2018 and generic competition began in december 2019. the company anticipates a rapid and substantial decline in u.s. nuvaring sales in 2020 as a result of this generic competition. in addition, the patents that provide market exclusivity for januvia and janumet in the u.s. expire in july 2022 (although six-month pediatric exclusivity may extend this date). the patent that provides market exclusivity for januvia in the eu expires in july 2022 (although pediatric exclusivity may extend this date to september 2022). finally, the spc that provides market exclusivity for janumet in the eu expires in april 2023. the company anticipates sales of januvia and janumet in these markets will decline substantially after these patent expiries. 21 table of contents key products generate a significant amount of the company's profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company's ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company's key products, such as keytruda, gardasil/gardasil 9, januvia , janumet , and bridion . in particular, in 2019, the company's oncology portfolio, led by keytruda, represented the majority of the company's revenue and earnings growth. as a result of the company's dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company's product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-approval trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. such events could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any such products. the company's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products. expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company's future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products that it may develop through collaborations and joint ventures and products that it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals. therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects. the company's success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: 22 table of contents findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, or the anticipated labeling, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions or certain collaborations. failure to successfully develop and market new products in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects. the company's products, including products in development, cannot be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company's activities, including research, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and the manufacturing and marketing of its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu, japan and china. in the united states, the fda administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, reduction in the cost of drugs. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities, including in japan and china, have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company's failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the products in that jurisdiction. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company's products. even after a product reaches the market, certain developments following regulatory approval may decrease demand for the company's products, including the following: results in post-approval phase 4 trials or other studies; the re-review of products that are already marketed; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy, quality or labeling changes; and scrutiny of advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse 23 table of contents labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following in the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema, japan's pmda and china's nmpa have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company's products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. in addition, dissemination of promotional materials through evolving digital channels serves to increase visibility and scrutiny in the marketplace. the company faces intense competition from lower cost generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures that encourage the use of generic and biosimilar products. although it is the company's policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company's products can arise at any time, and the company's patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company's sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company's drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company's sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors' products. the company's products face intense competition from competitors' products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors' products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use, have better insurance coverage or reimbursement levels or be more effectively marketed and sold than the company's products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors' branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company's products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company faces continued pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces continued pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company's sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the aca, and (iii) state activities aimed at increasing price transparency, including new laws as noted above in item 1. competition and the health care environment health 24 table of contents care environment and government regulations. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, in the united states, larger customers have received higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. the company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. in order to provide information about the company's pricing practices, the company annually posts on its website its pricing transparency report for the united states. the report provides the company's average annual list price and net price increases across the company's u.s. portfolio dating back to 2010. in 2019, the company's gross u.s. sales were reduced by approximately 44% as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu, japan and china have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. in japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines, which will occur again in 2020. furthermore, the government can order re-pricing for specific products if it determines that use of such product will exceed certain thresholds defined under applicable re-pricing rules. for example, pursuant to a re-pricing rule, the japanese government reduced the price of keytruda by 17.5%, effective february 2020. additionally, keytruda will be subject to another significant price reduction in april 2020 under a provision of the japanese pricing rules. the company expects pricing pressures to continue in the future. the health care industry in the united states has been, and will continue to be, subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by the executive branch, congress and state legislatures. in 2010, the united states enacted major health care reform legislation in the form of the aca. various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. the aca increased the mandated medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340b drug discount program. the aca also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ) which increased to 70% in 2019 and was extended to biosimilar products. in 2019, the company's revenue was reduced by approximately $615 million due to this requirement. also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. in 2019, the company recorded $112 million of costs for this annual fee. in 2016, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) issued the medicaid rebate final rule that implements provisions of the aca effective april 1, 2016. the rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state medicaid programs. the impact of changes resulting from the issuance of the rule is not material to merck at this time. however, the company is still awaiting guidance from cms on two aspects of the rule that were deferred for later implementation. these include a definition of what constitutes a product line extension' and a delay in the participation of the u.s. territories in the medicaid drug rebate program until april 1, 2022. the company will evaluate the financial impact of these two elements when they become effective. in addition, as discussed above in competition and the health care environment, the administration has recently proposed a draft rule that would allow importation of certain lower-cost prescription drugs from canada. if the rule is finalized as proposed, states or certain other non-federal governmental entities would be able to submit importation program proposals to the fda for review and authorization of two-year programs (with the opportunity to extend for two more years). there will be a public comment period on the proposed rule which will expire on march 9, 2020. following the comment period, the fda will have to review and finalize its proposal before any states or other 25 table of contents parties can submit their plans to comply with the federal rule. if the proposed rule is adopted, it likely will be some time before states or other parties can actually implement importation plans. also, in october 2018, the administration issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to implement an international pricing index (ipi) model in the united states for products covered under medicare part b. the proposal would: (1) reduce medicare part b payments for drugs based on a market basket of international prices; (2) allow private sector vendors to negotiate prices for drugs, take title to drugs, and compete for physician and hospital business; and (3) change the physician reimbursement under medicare part b from the current model to eliminate the buy and bill system and instead pay physicians based on a flat fee that approximates the revenue they currently receive from drugs. public comments on the ipi proposal were accepted through late 2018 and it is unclear when the agency may issue a proposed rule on the ipi model. adoption of one or both of the proposed rules could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company cannot predict the likelihood of additional future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. in 2017, the company experienced a network cyber-attack that led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. the company could be a target of future cyber-attacks. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and complex information technology systems and computing infrastructure (collectively, it systems) to conduct critical operations. certain of these systems are managed, hosted, provided or used by third parties to assist in conducting the company's business. disruption, degradation, or manipulation of these it systems through intentional or accidental means by the company's employees, third parties with authorized access or unauthorized third parties could adversely affect key business processes. cyber-attacks against the company's it systems or third-party providers' it systems, such as cloud-based systems, could result in exposure of confidential information, the modification of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. misuse of any of these it systems could result in the disclosure of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade secrets, intellectual property, or other confidential business information. the company continues to leverage new and innovative technologies across the enterprise to improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business processes; the use of which can create new risks. in 2017, the company experienced a network cyber-attack that led to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations, and resulting losses. the company has insurance coverage insuring against losses resulting from cyber-attacks and has received proceeds in connection with the 2017 cyber-attack. however, there are disputes with certain of the insurers about the availability of some of the insurance coverage for claims related to the 2017 cyber-attack. the company has implemented a variety of measures to further enhance and modernize its systems to guard against similar attacks in the future, and also is pursuing an enterprise-wide effort to enhance the company's resiliency against future cyber-attacks, including incidents similar to the 2017 attack. the objective of these efforts is not only to protect against future cyber-attacks, but also to improve the speed of the company's recovery from such attacks and enable continued business operations to the greatest extent possible during any recovery period. although the aggregate impact of cyber-attacks and network disruptions, including the 2017 cyber-attack, on the company's operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the company continues to be a target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. the company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of company it systems to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to protect its data and it systems or the efforts of third-party providers to protect their it systems will be successful in preventing disruptions to the company's operations, including its manufacturing, research and sales operations. such disruptions have in the past and could in the future result in loss of revenue, or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the company's or the company's third-party providers' databases or it systems and have in the past and could in the future also result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company and substantial remediation costs. 26 table of contents the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws and regulations. the company is currently subject to a number of government laws and regulations and, in the future, could become subject to new government laws and regulations. the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, or the negative results of non-compliance, could adversely affect the business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the company; these laws and regulations include (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the united states or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts or fees; (ii) the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other anti-bribery and corruption laws; (iii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, and access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iv) changes in intellectual property laws; (v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) new and increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement, particularly in the eu and the united states; (vii) legislative mandates or preferences for local manufacturing of pharmaceutical or vaccine products; (viii) emerging and new global regulatory requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to healthcare professionals; (ix) environmental regulations; and (x) the potential impact of importation restrictions, embargoes, trade sanctions and legislative and/or other regulatory changes. the uncertainty in global economic conditions together with cost-reduction measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company's operating results. uncertainty in global economic and geopolitical conditions may result in a slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company's business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company's products or by reducing the demand for the company's products, which could in turn negatively impact the company's sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. changes to the u.s. health care system as part of health care reform, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, have contributed to pricing pressure. in several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, the company's revenue performance in 2019 was negatively affected by other cost-reduction measures taken by governments and other third-parties to lower health care costs. the company anticipates all of these actions, and additional actions in the future, will continue to negatively affect revenue performance. if credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company's results. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. the extent of the company's operations outside the united states is significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company's ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, including the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the united states or other governments; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company's business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. 27 table of contents in 2016, the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the eu, commonly referred to as brexit. as a result of that referendum and subsequent negotiations, the uk left the eu on january 31, 2020. a transitional period will apply from january 31, 2020 until december 31, 2020, and during this period the eu will treat the uk as if it were an eu member state, and the uk will continue to participate in the eu customs union allowing for the freedom of movement for people and goods. during the transitional period the eu and the uk will continue to negotiate a trade agreement to formalize the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu. the company has taken actions and made certain contingency plans for scenarios in which the uk and the eu do not reach a mutually satisfactory understanding as to a future trade agreement. it is not possible at this time to predict whether there will be any such understanding before the end of 2020, or if such an understanding is reached, whether its terms will vary in ways that result in greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries, increased regulatory complexities, and/or cross border labor issues that could materially adversely impact the company's business operations in the uk. failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect the company's ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. the company's success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. the company cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. in the past, the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. in addition, the network cyber-attack experienced by the company in june 2017 led to a disruption of the company's operations, including its manufacturing operations. the company may, in the future, experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company's products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. in addition, the company could experience difficulties or delays in manufacturing its products caused by natural disasters, such as hurricanes. for example, in 2017, the company's lone manufacturing plant in puerto rico was negatively affected by hurricane maria. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the company. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company's efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and, if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company's financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. the company's business in china has grown rapidly in the past few years, and the importance of china to the company's overall pharmaceutical and vaccines business outside the united states has increased accordingly. continued growth of the company's business in china is dependent upon ongoing development of a favorable environment for innovative pharmaceutical products and vaccines, sustained access for the company's currently marketed products, and the absence of trade impediments or adverse pricing controls. as noted above in health care environment and government regulation , pricing pressure in china has increased as the chinese government has been taking steps to reduce costs, including implementing healthcare reform that has led to the acceleration of generic 28 table of contents substitution, where available. while pricing pressure has always existed in china, health care reform has increased this pressure in part due to the acceleration of generic substitution through the government's vbp program. in 2019, the government implemented the vbp program through a tendering process for mature products which have generic substitutes with a generic quality consistency evaluation approval. mature products that have entered into the first two rounds of vbp had, on average, a price reduction of 50%. the expansion of the vbp program remains to be seen. in addition, the company anticipates that the reported inquiries made by various governmental authorities involving multinational pharmaceutical companies in china may continue. also, in december 2019, a new coronavirus, now known as covid-19, which has proved to be highly contagious, emerged in wuhan, china. the outbreak of the virus has caused material disruptions to the chinese economy, including its health care system, which will have a negative effect on the company's first quarter 2020 results which, at this time, is not expected to be material. since the future course and duration of the covid-19 outbreak are unknown, the company is currently unable to determine whether the outbreak will have a further negative effect on the company's results in 2020. the outbreak of covid-19 currently has also had a limited effect on the company's supply chain of drugs into and raw materials out of china. the outbreak has also negatively affected certain of the company's clinical trials. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to maintain the company's presence in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into business development transactions, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation could negatively affect the company's business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and forwards and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. certain of the company's interest rate derivatives and investments are based on the london interbank offered rate (libor), and a portion of merck's indebtedness bears interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on libor. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, which may cause libor to cease to exist entirely after 2021. while the company expects that reasonable alternatives to libor will be implemented prior to the 2021 target date, the company cannot predict the consequences and timing of these developments, which could include an increase in interest expense and may also require the amendment of contracts that reference libor. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company's tax liabilities, and the company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in addition, the company may be negatively affected by changes in tax laws, or new tax laws, affecting, for example, tax rates, and/or revised tax law interpretations in domestic or foreign jurisdictions. 29 table of contents pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could materially adversely affect the company's business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its it systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. negative events in the animal health industry could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as african swine fever, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company's main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company's business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics and vaccines carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics and vaccines, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, complex, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties related to biologics and vaccines, including: there may be limited access to, and supply of, normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics and vaccines are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both pre-clinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates, and fda approval is generally required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics and vaccines, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic and vaccine must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to 30 table of contents the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics and vaccines are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics and vaccines cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to variability in the manufacturing process and could lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, which allegations would be reviewed through a standard investigation process that could lead to closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost of such insurance has increased significantly. the company is subject to a substantial number of product liability claims. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 10. contingencies and environmental liabilities below for more information on the company's current product liability litigation. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for most product liabilities. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. social media platforms present risks and challenges. the inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain social media channels could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. in addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the company or its products on any social networking platforms could damage the company's reputation, brand image and goodwill. further, the disclosure of non-public company-sensitive information by the company's workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. although there is an internal company social media policy that guides employees on appropriate personal and professional use of social media about the company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand also presents new challenges. risks related to the proposed spin-off of newco. the proposed spin-off of newco may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and may not achieve the expected results. in february 2020, the company announced its intention to spin-off products from its women's health, trusted legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into a new, yet-to-be-named, independent, publicly traded company (newco) through a distribution of newco's publicly traded stock to company shareholders. the distribution is expected to qualify as tax-free to the company and its shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2021. completion of the spin-off will be subject to a number of factors and conditions, and there can be no assurances that the company will be able to complete the spin-off on the terms or on the timeline that was announced, if at all. unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the proposed spin-off, including but not limited to disruptions in general or financial market conditions or potential problems or delays in obtaining various regulatory and tax approvals or clearances. in addition, consummation of the proposed spin-off will require final approval from the company's board of directors. 31 table of contents the costs to complete the proposed spin-off will be significant. in addition, the company may be unable to achieve some or all of the strategic and financial benefits that it expects to achieve from the spin-off of newco. the company will incur significant expenses in connection with the spin-off. in addition, the company may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the spin-off. the anticipated benefits of the spin-off are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect. following the spin-off, the price of shares of the company's common stock may fluctuate significantly. the company cannot predict the effect of the spin-off on the trading price of shares of its common stock, and the market value of shares of its common stock may be less than, equal to or greater than the market value of shares of its common stock prior to the spin-off. in addition, the price of merck's common stock may be more volatile around the time of the spin-off. there could be significant income tax liability if the spin-off or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the company expects that prior to completion of the spin-off it will receive an opinion from its u.s. tax counsel that concludes, among other things, that the spin-off of all of the outstanding newco shares to merck shareholders and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to merck and its shareholders under sections 355, 361 and 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code, except to the extent of any cash received in lieu of fractional shares of newco common stock. any such opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service (irs). accordingly, while the company believes the risk is low, the irs may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. the opinion will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from merck and newco regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters, which, if incomplete, incorrect or not satisfied, could alter the conclusions of the party giving such opinion. if the proposed spin-off ultimately is determined to be taxable, which the company believes is unlikely, the spin-off could be treated as a taxable dividend to merck's shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and merck's shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, merck would recognize a taxable gain to the extent that the fair market value of newco common stock exceeds merck's tax basis in such stock on the date of the spin-off. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning, or negative variations of any of the foregoing. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company's growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic and/or biosimilar products as the company's products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company's long-term business performance. 32 table of contents the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company's business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. cyber-attacks on the company's or third-party providers' information technology systems, which could disrupt the company's operations. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company's business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. the proposed spin-off might be delayed or the costs to complete the spin-off might be more significant than expected. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 69 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis of operations and financial condition and results of operation, in this form 10-k. -62- table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation 46 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the company future operating results and cash flows may differ materially from the results described in this 10-k due to risks and uncertainties related to the company business, including those discussed below. in addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report. key company products generate a significant amount of the company profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the market for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company ability to generate profits and operating cash flow is dependent upon the increasing profitability of the company cholesterol franchise, consisting of vytorin and zetia. in addition, products such as clarinex, peg-intron, rebetol, remicade, temodar, otc claritin and nasonex accounted for a material portion of 2005 revenues. as a result of the company dependence on key products, any events that adversely affect the markets for these products could have a significant impact on results of operations. these events include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, otc availability of the company product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments, and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. 10 table of contents more specifically, the profitability of the company cholesterol franchise may be adversely affected by the introduction of generic forms of two competing cholesterol products that will lose patent protection in 2006. in addition, generic flonase (fluticasone propionate) was approved in 2006 and may unfavorably impact the corticosteroid nasal spray market. past examples of events in recent years that have adversely affected the market for leading products include events that have affected the market for clarinex and peg-intron and rebetol, particularly in the u.s. clarinex continues to experience intense competition in the prescription u.s. allergy market after the launch of claritin otc and a competing otc loratadine product in the u.s. in december 2002 and the introduction of generic allegra (fexofenadine) in the u.s. in september 2005. in addition, as a result of the introduction of a competitor product for pegylated interferon and the introduction of generic ribavirin, the value of peg-intron (pegylated interferon) and rebetol (ribavirin) combination therapy for hepatitis has been severely diminished and earnings and cash flow have been materially and negatively impacted. there is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate financial returns because the development of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. the company success is dependent on the development and marketing of new products, and uncertainties in the regulatory and approval process may result in the failure of products to reach the market. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. intellectual property protection is an important contributor to the company profitability and as patents covering the company products expire or if they are found to be invalid, generic forms of the company products may be introduced to the market, which may have a material and negative affect on results of operations. intellectual property protection is critical to schering-plough ability to successfully commercialize its products. upon the expiration or the successful challenge of the company patents covering a product, competitors may introduce generic versions of such products, which may include the company well- 11 table of contents established products. such generic competition could result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or downward pressures on the prices at which the company offers formerly patented products, particularly in the u.s. patents and patent applications relating to schering-plough significant products are of material importance to schering-plough. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company results of operations. patent disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and other similar payments and decreased sales. patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving the company patents may lead to a loss of market exclusivity and render the company patents invalid. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving patents held by a third party may preclude the commercialization of the company products, force the company to obtain licenses in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, negatively affect sales of existing products or result in injunctive relief and payment of financial remedies. for example, the company product, dr. scholl freeze away wart removal product, is currently the subject of a patent infringement action brought by a third party company, and an adverse outcome in this action may result in the company inability to continue manufacturing the product. even if the company is ultimately successful in a particular dispute, the company may incur substantial costs in defending its patents and other intellectual property rights. for example, a generic manufacturer may file an abbreviated new drug application seeking approval after the expiration of the applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the innovator new drug application are invalid or not infringed. this allegation is commonly known as a paragraph iv certification. the innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic manufacturer to enforce its patents. in recent years, generic manufacturers have used paragraph iv certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this trend will continue. the potential for litigation regarding schering-plough intellectual property rights always exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to abridge schering-plough rights, as well as by schering-plough in protecting its rights. u.s. and foreign regulations, including those establishing the company ability to price products, may negatively affect the company sales and profit margins. the company faces increased pricing pressure in the u.s. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company sales and profit margins. for example, the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are eligible for medicare. the prescription drug benefit became effective on january 1, 2006, and it is anticipated that it may result in increased purchasing power of those negotiating on behalf of medicare recipients. in addition to legislation concerning price controls, other trends that could affect the company business include legislative or regulatory action relating to pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, health care reform initiatives and drug importation legislation, involuntary approval of medicines for otc use, consolidation among customers, and trends toward managed care and health care costs containment. as a result of the u.s. government efforts to reduce medicaid expenses, managed care organizations continue to grow in influence and the company faces increased pricing pressure as managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts with respect to the company products. in the international markets, cost control methods including restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasis on greater use of generic drugs, and across the board price cuts may decrease revenues internationally. 12 table of contents there are material pending investigations against the company, the outcome of which could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. the company cannot predict with certainty the outcome of the pending investigations to which it is subject, any of which may lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or restrictions on its operations. the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements, and related business practices of the company and other participants in the health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. these entities include the department of justice and its u.s. attorney offices, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services, the fda, the federal trade commission and various state attorneys general offices. many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to exercise significant discretion. in the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings, which, if instituted and resolved unfavorably, could subject the company to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. the company also cannot predict whether any investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales. any such result could have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. regardless of the merits or outcomes of these investigations, government investigations are costly, divert management attention from the company business and may result in substantial damage to the company reputation. please refer to item 3. legal proceedings in this report for descriptions of these pending investigations. there are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect the company business. unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, including litigation concerning product pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims, erisa matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products, materially and adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations, or subject the company to conditions that affect business operations, such as exclusion from government reimbursement programs. please refer to item 3. legal proceedings in this report for descriptions of significant pending litigation. the company is subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to comply with, as well as the costs of compliance of, these regulations may adversely affect the company financial position and results of operations. the company manufacturing facilities must meet stringent regulatory standards and are subject to regular inspections. the cost of regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance failures, can materially affect the company financial position and results of operations. failure to comply with regulations, which include pharmacovigilance reporting requirements and standards relating to clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices, can result in delays in the approval of drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of drugs, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. for example, in may 2002, the company agreed with the fda to the entry of a consent decree to resolve issues related to compliance with current good manufacturing practices at certain of the company facilities in new jersey and puerto rico. the consent decree work placed significant additional controls on production and release of products from these sites, which increased costs and 13 table of contents slowed production and led to a reduction in the number of products produced at the sites. further, the company research and development operations were negatively impacted by the consent decree because these operations share common facilities with the manufacturing operations. the company also is subject to other regulations, including environmental, health and safety and labor regulations. developments following regulatory approval may decrease demand for the company products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval may decrease demand for the company products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; uncertainties concerning safety labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. recently, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. these situations also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general, which have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, following the wake of recent product withdrawals of other companies and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the european medicines agency and the pharmaceuticals and medicines device agency have increased their focus on safety, when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products which are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and in particular direct-to -consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in the prevalence of negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or may require the company to remove the product from the market. new products and technological advances developed by the company competitors may negatively affect sales. the company operates in a highly competitive industry. many of the company competitors have been conducting research and development in areas both served by the company current products and by those products the company is in the process of developing. competitive developments that may impact the company include technological advances by, patents granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and existing generic, prescription and/or otc products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/ schering-plough cholesterol partnership. in addition, it is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result the company will be unable to maintain its sales for such products. because the company often competes with other companies to acquire or license products (whether in early stage development or already approved for commercial sale) that the company believes to be clinically or commercially attractive, it may be difficult for the company to enter into such transactions. one aspect of the company business is to acquire or license rights to develop or sell products from other companies. it may be challenging to acquire or license products that the company believes to be clinically or commercially attractive on acceptable terms or at all because the company competes for these opportunities against companies that often have far greater financial resources than the company. the company prospects may be adversely affected if it is unable to obtain rights to additional products on acceptable terms. 14 table of contents the company relies on third party relationships for its key products and changes to the third parties that are outside its control may impact the business. the company relies on third party relationships for many of its key products. any time that third parties are involved, there may be changes to or influences or impact on the third parties that are outside the control of the company that may also, directly or indirectly, impact the company business operation. the company does not have operational or financial control over these third parties and may only have limited influence, if any, with respect to the manner in which they conduct their businesses or behave in their relationships with the company. also, in many cases, these third parties may offer or develop products that may compete with the company products or have other conflicting interests relative to the company. the company operates a global business that exposes the company to additional risks, and any adverse events could have a material negative impact on results of operations. the company operates in over 120 countries, and non-u.s. operations generate the majority of the company profit and cash flow. non-u.s. operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business overseas. these risks include possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations, pricing and reimbursement restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions or economic destabilization. also, fluctuations in inflation, interest rate, and foreign currency exchange rates can impact schering-plough consolidated financial results. in addition, there may be changes to the company business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. insurance coverage for product liability may become unavailable or cost prohibitive. the company maintains insurance coverage with such deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to self-insurance varies accordingly. however, as a result of increased product liability claims in the pharmaceutical industry, the availability of third party insurance may become unavailable or cost prohibitive. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required for determining the company tax liabilities, and the company tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company u.s. federal income tax returns for the 1997-2002 period are currently under audit by the internal revenue service. the company may be challenged by the irs and other tax authorities on positions it has taken in its income tax returns. although the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years, based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution may result in payments that materially affect shareholders equity, liquidity and/or cash flow. in addition, the company may be impacted by changes in tax laws including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this 10-k. 48 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors schering-plough future operating results and cash flows may differ materially from the results described in this 10-k due to risks and uncertainties related to schering-plough business, including those discussed below. in addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report. key schering-plough products generate a significant amount of schering-plough profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the market for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. schering-plough ability to generate profits and operating cash flow is largely dependent upon the continued profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise, consisting of vytorin and zetia. in addition, products such as peg-intron, rebetol, remicade, temodar, otc claritin and nasonex accounted for a material portion of 2006 revenues. as a result of schering-plough dependence on key products, any events that adversely affect the markets for these products could have a significant impact on results of operations. these events include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, otc availability of schering-plough product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. for example, the profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise may be adversely affected by the introduction of multiple generic forms in december 2006 of two competing cholesterol products that lost patent protection earlier in the year. in recent years, the market for peg-intron and rebetol has been adversely affected. as a result of the introduction of a competitor product for pegylated interferon and the introduction of generic ribavirin, the value of peg-intron (pegylated interferon) and rebetol (ribavirin) combination therapy for hepatitis has been severely diminished and earnings and cash flow have been materially and negatively impacted. there is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate financial returns because the development of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is 13 table of contents compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. schering-plough success is dependent on the development and marketing of new products, and uncertainties in the regulatory and approval process may result in the failure of products to reach the market. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. intellectual property protection for innovation is an important contributor to schering-plough profitability. generic forms of schering-plough products may be introduced to the market as a result of the expiration of patents covering schering-plough products, a successful challenge to schering-plough patent, or the at-risk launch of a generic version of a schering-plough product, which may have a material and negative effect on results of operations. intellectual property protection is critical to schering-plough ability to successfully commercialize its products. upon the expiration or the successful challenge of schering-plough patents covering a product, competitors may introduce lower-priced generic versions of such products, which may include schering-plough well-established products. in recent years, some generic manufacturers have launched generic versions of products before the ultimate resolution of patent litigation (commonly known as at-risk product launches). such generic competition could result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or downward pressures on the prices at which schering-plough offers formerly patented products, particularly in the u.s. patents and patent applications relating to schering-plough significant products are of material importance to schering-plough. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect schering-plough results of operations. patent disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and other similar payments and decreased sales. patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving schering-plough patents, or the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a loss of market exclusivity and render such patents invalid. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving patents held by a third party may preclude the commercialization of schering-plough products, force schering-plough to obtain licenses in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, negatively affect sales of existing products or result in injunctive relief and payment of financial remedies. for example, schering-plough product, dr. scholl freeze away wart removal product, is currently the subject of a patent infringement action brought by a third party company, and an adverse outcome in this action may result in schering-plough inability to continue manufacturing the product. even if schering-plough is ultimately successful in a particular dispute, schering-plough may incur substantial costs in defending its patents and other intellectual property rights. for example, a generic manufacturer may file an abbreviated new drug application seeking approval after the expiration of the applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the innovator new drug 14 table of contents application are invalid or not infringed. this allegation is commonly known as a paragraph iv certification. the innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic manufacturer to enforce its patents. in recent years, generic manufacturers have used paragraph iv certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this trend will continue. the potential for litigation regarding schering-plough intellectual property rights always exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to abridge schering-plough rights, as well as by schering-plough in protecting its rights. see patent challenges under the hatch-waxman act in item 1, business , for a discussion of current paragraph iv certifications for schering-plough products. u.s. and foreign regulations, including those establishing schering-plough ability to price products, may negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure in the u.s. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. for example, the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are eligible for medicare. the prescription drug benefit became effective on january 1, 2006, and is resulting in increased use of generics and increased purchasing power of those negotiating on behalf of medicare recipients. in addition to legislation concerning price controls, other trends that could affect schering-plough business include legislative or regulatory action relating to pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, health care reform initiatives and drug importation legislation, involuntary approval of medicines for otc use, consolidation among customers and trends toward managed care and health care costs containment. as a result of the u.s. government efforts to reduce medicaid expenses, managed care organizations continue to grow in influence and schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure as managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts with respect to schering-plough products. outside of the u.s., many governmental agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which pharmaceutical products are sold. in the international markets, cost control methods including restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements; emphasis on greater use of generic drugs; and across-the-board price cuts may decrease revenues internationally. there are material pending government investigations against schering-plough, which could lead to the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, and which could give rise to other investigations or litigation by government entities or private parties. schering-plough cannot predict with certainty the outcome of the pending investigations to which it is subject, any of which may lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or restrictions on its operations. the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements, and related business practices of schering-plough and other participants in the health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. these entities include the department of justice and its u.s. attorney offices, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services, the fda, the federal trade commission and various state attorneys general offices. many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to exercise significant discretion. in the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings which, if resolved unfavorably, could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. in addition, an adverse outcome to a government investigation could prompt other government entities to commence investigations of schering-plough or cause those entities or private parties to bring civil claims against it. schering-plough also cannot predict whether 15 table of contents any investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales. any such result could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. regardless of the merits or outcomes of these investigations, government investigations are costly, divert management attention from schering-plough business and may result in substantial damage to schering-plough reputation. please refer to item 3, legal proceedings for descriptions of these pending investigations. there are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect schering-plough business. unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in future litigation, including litigation concerning product pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims, erisa matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products and could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. any such result could materially and adversely affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. please refer to item 3, legal proceedings for descriptions of significant pending litigation. schering-plough is subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to comply with, as well as the costs of compliance of, these regulations may adversely affect schering-plough financial position and results of operations. schering-plough manufacturing facilities and clinical/research practices must meet stringent regulatory standards and are subject to regular inspections. the cost of regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance failures, can materially affect schering-plough financial position and results of operations. failure to comply with regulations, which include pharmacovigilance reporting requirements and standards relating to clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices, can result in delays in the approval of drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of drugs, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. for example, in may 2002, schering-plough agreed with the fda to the entry of a consent decree to resolve issues related to compliance with current good manufacturing practices at certain of schering-plough facilities in new jersey and puerto rico. the consent decree work placed significant additional controls on production and release of products from these sites, which increased costs and slowed production and led to a reduction in the number of products produced at the sites. further, schering-plough research and development operations were negatively impacted by the consent decree because these operations share common facilities with the manufacturing operations. schering-plough also is subject to other regulations, including environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations. developments following regulatory approval may decrease demand for schering-plough products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials, may decrease demand for schering-plough products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; uncertainties concerning safety labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. 16 table of contents in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. these situations also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general, which have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, following the wake of recent product withdrawals of other companies and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the european medicines agency and the pharmaceuticals and medicines device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the u.s., on advertising and promotion and in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in the prevalence of negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of schering-plough products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or may require schering-plough to remove the product from the market. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, schering-plough is at risk for product liability claims for its products. new products and technological advances developed by schering-plough competitors may negatively affect sales. schering-plough operates in a highly competitive industry. schering-plough competes with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. many of schering-plough competitors have been conducting research and development in areas both served by schering-plough current products and by those products schering-plough is in the process of developing. competitive developments that may impact schering-plough include technological advances by, patents granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and existing generic, prescription and/or otc products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/schering-plough cholesterol partnership. in addition, it is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result schering-plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such products. competition from third parties may make it difficult for schering-plough to acquire or license new products or product candidates (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such transactions on terms that permit schering-plough to generate a positive financial impact. schering-plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing arrangements as a source for new products. opportunities for obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts of funding or substantial resource commitments. schering-plough competes for these opportunities against many other companies and third parties that have greater financial resources and greater ability to make other resource commitments. schering-plough may not be able to acquire or license new products, which could adversely impact schering-plough and its prospects. schering-plough may also have difficulty acquiring or licensing new products on acceptable terms. to secure rights to new products, schering-plough may have to make substantial financial or other resource commitments that could limit its ability to produce a positive financial impact from such transactions. schering-plough relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may adversely impact the business. schering-plough has several relationships with third parties on which schering-plough depends for many of its key products. very often these third parties compete with schering-plough or have interests that are not aligned with the interests of schering-plough. notwithstanding any contracts schering-plough has with these third parties, 17 table of contents schering-plough may not be able to control or influence the conduct of these parties, or the circumstances that affect them, either of which could adversely impact schering-plough. schering-plough operates a global business that exposes schering-plough to additional risks, and any adverse events could have a material negative impact on results of operations. schering-plough operates in more than 120 countries, and non-u.s. operations generate the majority of schering-plough profit and cash flow. non-u.s. operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business overseas. these risks include: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions; multiple foreign regulatory requirements that could restrict schering-plough ability to manufacture and sell its products; fluctuations in inflation, interest rate, and foreign currency exchange rates; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to schering-plough business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. insurance coverage for product liability may become unavailable or cost prohibitive. schering-plough maintains insurance coverage with such deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to self-insurance varies accordingly. however, as a result of increased product liability claims in the pharmaceutical industry, the availability of third party insurance may become unavailable or cost prohibitive. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required for determining schering-plough tax liabilities, and schering-plough tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. schering-plough u.s. federal income tax returns for the 1997-2002 period are currently under audit by the internal revenue service. schering-plough may be challenged by the irs and other tax authorities on positions it has taken in its income tax returns. although schering-plough believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years, based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in addition, schering-plough may be impacted by changes in tax laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors schering-plough future operating results and cash flows may differ materially from the results described in this 10-k due to risks and uncertainties related to schering-plough business, including those discussed below. in addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report. 13 table of contents key schering-plough products generate a significant amount of schering-plough profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. schering-plough ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise, consisting of vytorin and zetia. in addition, other key products such as remicade, nasonex, pegintron, temodar, clarinex, and avelox account for a material portion of revenues. as a result of schering-plough dependence on key products, any events that adversely affects the markets for these products could have a significant impact on results of operations. these events include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or otc availability of schering-plough product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. for example, the profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise may be adversely affected by competition from multiple generic cholesterol products. the fda has held a public meeting to solicit comment on making certain prescription drugs available behind-the-counter without a prescription and continues to study this scenario. although the fda did not indicate what drugs might be included this category, if the fda approved behind-the-counter sales of products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture, such competition could have an adverse result on sales and profitability. there is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate financial returns because the development of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. schering-plough success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. intellectual property protection for innovation is an important contributor to schering-plough profitability. generic forms of schering-plough products may be introduced to the market as a result of the expiration of patents covering schering-plough products, a successful challenge to schering-plough patents, or the at-risk launch of a generic version of a schering-plough product, which may have a material and negative effect on results of operations. intellectual property protection is critical to schering-plough ability to successfully commercialize its products. u.s. patents relating to schering-plough significant products are of material importance to schering-plough. upon the expiration or the successful challenge of schering-plough patents covering a 14 table of contents product, competitors may introduce lower-priced generic or similar branded versions of that product, which may include schering-plough well-established products. a generic manufacturer may file an abbreviated new drug application seeking approval after the expiration of the applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the innovator new drug application are invalid, not infringed or unenforceable. this allegation is commonly known as a paragraph iv certification. the innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic manufacturer to enforce its patents. generic manufacturers have used paragraph iv certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this trend will continue. in recent years, some generic manufacturers have launched generic versions of products before the ultimate resolution of patent litigation (commonly known as at-risk product launches). generic entry may result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or downward pressures on the prices at which schering-plough offers formerly patented products. please refer to legal proceedings in schering-plough 10-k and 10-qs for descriptions of pending intellectual property litigation. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect schering-plough results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies patents in the u.s., potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. patent disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and other similar payments and decreased sales. patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving schering-plough patents, or the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a determination by a court that the patent is not infringed, invalid, and/or unenforceable. such an adverse determination could lead to a loss of market exclusivity. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving patents held by a third party may lead to a determination by a court that the patent is infringed, valid, and enforceable. such an adverse determination may preclude the commercialization of schering-plough products through injunctive relief, and/or may lead to significant financial damages for past and ongoing infringement. due to the uncertainty surrounding patent litigation, parties may settle patent disputes by obtaining a license under mutually agreeable terms in order to decrease risk of an interruption in manufacturing and/or marketing of its products. the potential for litigation regarding schering-plough intellectual property rights always exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to abridge schering-plough rights. even if schering-plough is ultimately successful in a particular dispute, schering-plough may incur substantial costs in defending its patents and other intellectual property rights. see patent challenges under the hatch-waxman act in item 3, legal proceedings for a list of current paragraph iv certifications for schering-plough products. multi-jurisdictional regulations, including those establishing schering-plough ability to price products, may negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. for example, in the u.s., the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are eligible for medicare. the prescription drug benefit became effective on january 1, 2006 and has resulted in increased use of generics and increased purchasing power of those negotiating on behalf of medicare recipients. in addition to legislation concerning price controls, other trends could affect schering-plough business. these trends include legislative or regulatory action relating to pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, health care reform initiatives and drug importation legislation and involuntary approval of medicines for otc use. these trends also include non-governmental initiatives and practices such as consolidation among customers, managed care practices and health care costs containment. increasingly, market approval, 15 table of contents reimbursement of products, prescribers practices and policies of third party payors may be influenced by health technology assessments by the national institute for health and clinical excellence in the uk and other such organizations. in the u.s., as a result of the government efforts to reduce medicaid expenses, managed care organizations continue to grow in influence, and schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure as managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts with respect to schering-plough products. in other countries, many governmental agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which pharmaceutical products are sold. in these markets, cost control methods including restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements; emphasis on greater use of generic drugs; and across-the-board price cuts may decrease revenues internationally. through the acquisition of obs, schering-plough acquired marketed products and pipeline projects in therapeutic areas not currently covered by schering-plough existing marketed products portfolio and pipeline projects, including women health and fertility, anesthesia, and neuroscience, each of which carry unique risks and uncertainties which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. with its acquisition of obs, schering-plough acquired products in additional therapeutic areas. each therapeutic area presents a different risk profile, including different benefits and safety issues that must be balanced by schering-plough and the regulators as various r d and marketing decisions are made; unique product liability risks; different patient and prescriber priorities; and different societal pressures. while adding new therapeutic areas may strengthen the business by increasing sales and profits; making the combined company more relevant to patients and prescribers; and diversifying enterprise risk across more areas, such positives may not outweigh the additional risk in a particular therapeutic area or could result in unanticipated costs that could be material. market forces continue to evolve and can impact schering-plough ability to sell products or the price schering-plough can charge for products. a number of intermediaries are involved between drug manufacturers, such as schering-plough, and patients who use the drugs. these intermediaries impact the patient ability, and their prescribers ability, to choose and pay for a particular drug. these intermediaries include health care providers, such as hospitals and clinics; payors and their representatives, such as employers, insurers, managed care organizations and governments; and others in the supply chain, such as pharmacists and wholesalers. examples include: payors that require a patient to first fail on a generic drug before reimbursing for a more effective, branded product that is more expensive; hospitals that stock and administer only a generic product to in-patients; managed care organizations that may penalize doctors who prescribe outside approved formularies which may not include branded products when a generic is available; and pharmacists who receive larger revenues when they dispense a generic drug over a branded drug. further, the intermediaries are not required to routinely provide transparent data to patients comparing the effectiveness of generic and branded products or to disclose their own economic benefits that are tied to steering patients toward, or requiring patients to use, generic products rather than branded products. government investigations against schering-plough could lead to the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, which could give rise to other investigations or litigation by government entities or private parties. schering-plough cannot predict whether future or pending investigations to which it may become subject would lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or restrictions on its operations. the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements and related business practices of schering-plough and other participants in the health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. these entities include the department of 16 table of contents justice and its u.s. attorney offices, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services, the fda, the federal trade commission and various state attorneys general offices. many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to exercise significant discretion. in the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings which, if resolved unfavorably, could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. in addition, an adverse outcome to a government investigation could prompt other government entities to commence investigations of schering-plough or cause those entities or private parties to bring civil claims against it. schering-plough also cannot predict whether any investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales. any such result could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. congress and certain states have initiated investigations into the timing and disclosure of the enhance clinical trial and related events, as well as the timing of certain stock sales by one executive officer, carrie cox. regardless of the merits or outcomes of any investigation, government investigations are costly, divert management attention from schering-plough business and may result in substantial damage to schering-plough reputation. there are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect schering-plough business. unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in future litigation, including litigation concerning product pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims, erisa matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products and could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. any such result could materially and adversely affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. please refer to legal proceedings in item 3 of this 10-k for descriptions of significant pending litigation. issues concerning the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance clinical trial could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture sales of vytorin and zetia, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough financial condition. see item 3, legal proceedings enhance matter for background information about the merck/schering-plough cholesterol join venture enhance clinical trial and related matters. these issues concerning the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance clinical trial could have a material adverse effect on the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture sales of vytorin and zetia . there was significant negative media surrounding the release of the top-line results. to date in 2008, ims data shows that prescriptions for vytorin and zetia have declined. if sales of such products continue to trend down further or remain at current levels for a prolonged period, schering-plough business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. in addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government investigations or the litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a material adverse effect on schering-plough financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 17 table of contents schering-plough is subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to comply with, as well as the costs of compliance with, these regulations may adversely affect schering-plough financial position and results of operations. schering-plough manufacturing facilities and clinical/research practices must meet stringent regulatory standards and are subject to regular inspections. the cost of regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance failures, can materially affect schering-plough financial position, cash flows and results of operations. failure to comply with regulations, which include pharmacovigilance reporting requirements and standards relating to clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices, can result in delays in the approval of drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of drugs, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. schering-plough also is subject to other regulations, including environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of schering-plough products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials, may decrease demand for schering-plough products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; uncertainties concerning safety labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. these situations also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general, which have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials have lead to increase volatility in market reaction. in addition, following the wake of recent product withdrawals of other companies and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the european medicines agency and the pharmaceuticals and medicines device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the u.s., on advertising and promotion and in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in the prevalence of negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of schering-plough products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or may require schering-plough to remove the product from the market. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, schering-plough is at risk for product liability claims for its products. new products and technological advances developed by schering-plough competitors may negatively affect sales. schering-plough operates in a highly competitive industry. schering-plough competes with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. many of schering-plough competitors have been conducting research and development in areas served both by schering-plough current products and by those products schering-plough is in the process of 18 table of contents developing. competitive developments that may impact schering-plough include technological advances by, patents granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and existing generic, prescription and/or otc products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture. in addition, it is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result schering-plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such products. competition from third parties may make it difficult for schering-plough to acquire or license new products or product candidates (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such transactions on terms that permit schering-plough to generate a positive financial impact. schering-plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing arrangements as a source for new products. opportunities for obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts of funding or substantial resource commitments. schering-plough competes for these opportunities against many other companies and third parties that have greater financial resources and greater ability to make other resource commitments. schering-plough may not be able to acquire or license new products, which could adversely impact schering-plough and its prospects. schering-plough may also have difficulty acquiring or licensing new products on acceptable terms. to secure rights to new products, schering-plough may have to make substantial financial or other resource commitments that could limit its ability to produce a positive financial impact from such transactions. schering-plough relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may adversely impact the business. schering-plough has several relationships with third parties on which schering-plough depends for many of its key products. very often these third parties compete with schering-plough or have interests that are not aligned with the interests of schering-plough. notwithstanding any contracts schering-plough has with these third parties, schering-plough may not be able to control or influence the conduct of these parties, or the circumstances that affect them, either of which could adversely impact schering-plough. the relationships are long-standing and, as the third party work and schering-plough work evolves, priorities and alignments also change. at times new issues develop that were not anticipated at the time contracts were negotiated. these new issues, and related uncertainties in the contracts, also can adversely impact schering-plough. schering-plough global operations expose schering-plough to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on results of operations. a majority of schering-plough operations are outside the u.s. with the acquisition of obs in late 2007, schering-plough global operations in human prescription pharmaceuticals and animal health increased. acquisitions, such as the recently completed purchase of obs, further expanded the size, scale and scope of its global operations. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict schering-plough ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to schering-plough business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. 19 table of contents the integration of the businesses of schering-plough and obs to create a combined company is a complex process and may be subject to unforeseen developments, which could impact anticipated cost savings from synergies, expected accretion to earnings and results of future operations. as the two companies are combined, the workforces of schering-plough and obs will continue to face uncertainties until the completion of the integration phase. although substantial efforts are being made to complete the integration phase as quickly as possible, it is difficult to predict how long the integration phase will last. the workforces of both companies are learning to use new processes as work is integrated and streamlined. further, for those employees of the new combined company who have not in the past worked for a u.s.-based global company, the applicable regulatory requirements are different in a number of respects. while substantial efforts are being made to facilitate smooth execution of integration including thorough training and transparent and motivational employee communications there may be an increased risk of slower execution of various work processes, repeated execution to achieve quality standards and reputational harm in the event of a compliance failure with new and complex regulatory requirements, even if such a failure were inadvertent. any such events could have an adverse impact on anticipated cost savings from synergies, anticipated accretion to earnings from the transaction and the results of future operations. the acquisition of obs expanded schering-plough animal health business worldwide, which increases the risk that negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. through the acquisition of obs animal health businesses, schering-plough global animal health business is now a more significant business segment. the combined company future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including certain that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact schering-plough results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near schering-plough main production sites could require schering-plough to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force schering-plough to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. as the animal health segment of schering-plough business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. the acquisition of obs increased schering-plough biologics human and animal health product offerings, including animal health vaccines. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions such as the u.s. and european states within the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if schering-plough loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, schering-plough may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the european medicines agency and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the u.s., a biologics license application, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval for the release of each manufactured lot. 20 table of contents manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is sometimes complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. schering-plough is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. schering-plough operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, schering-plough has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since schering-plough cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect schering-plough results of operations and/or cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, schering-plough will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. insurance coverage for product liability may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. schering-plough maintains insurance coverage with such deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to self-insurance varies accordingly. for certain products, third-party insurance may be cost prohibitive, available on limited terms or unavailable. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in its jurisdictions. significant judgment is required for determining schering-plough tax liabilities, and schering-plough tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. schering-plough 1997-2007 tax returns remain open for examination by the irs. schering-plough may be challenged by the irs and other tax authorities on positions it has taken in its income tax returns. although schering-plough believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years, based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. with the acquisition of obs organon (human pharmaceutical) and intervet (animal health) businesses, the main tax risks are correspondingly centered in the netherlands, where management, intellectual property, and beneficial rights as well as product liability have been predominantly centered. the tax position for both organon and intervet in the netherlands has been closed through 2005. in addition, schering-plough may be impacted by changes in tax laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 59risk factors 13 risk factors schering-plough future operating results and cash flows may differ materially from the results described in this 10-k due to risks and uncertainties related to schering-plough business, including those discussed below. in addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report. 13 table of contents key schering-plough products generate a significant amount of schering-plough profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. schering-plough ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise, consisting of vytorin and zetia. in addition, other key products such as remicade, nasonex, pegintron, temodar, clarinex, and avelox account for a material portion of revenues. as a result of schering-plough dependence on key products, any events that adversely affects the markets for these products could have a significant impact on results of operations. these events include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or otc availability of schering-plough product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. for example, the profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise may be adversely affected by competition from multiple generic cholesterol products. the fda has held a public meeting to solicit comment on making certain prescription drugs available behind-the-counter without a prescription and continues to study this scenario. although the fda did not indicate what drugs might be included this category, if the fda approved behind-the-counter sales of products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture, such competition could have an adverse result on sales and profitability. there is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate financial returns because the development of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. schering-plough success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. intellectual property protection for innovation is an important contributor to schering-plough profitability. generic forms of schering-plough products may be introduced to the market as a result of the expiration of patents covering schering-plough products, a successful challenge to schering-plough patents, or the at-risk launch of a generic version of a schering-plough product, which may have a material and negative effect on results of operations. intellectual property protection is critical to schering-plough ability to successfully commercialize its products. u.s. patents relating to schering-plough significant products are of material importance to schering-plough. upon the expiration or the successful challenge of schering-plough patents covering a 14 table of contents product, competitors may introduce lower-priced generic or similar branded versions of that product, which may include schering-plough well-established products. a generic manufacturer may file an abbreviated new drug application seeking approval after the expiration of the applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the innovator new drug application are invalid, not infringed or unenforceable. this allegation is commonly known as a paragraph iv certification. the innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic manufacturer to enforce its patents. generic manufacturers have used paragraph iv certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this trend will continue. in recent years, some generic manufacturers have launched generic versions of products before the ultimate resolution of patent litigation (commonly known as at-risk product launches). generic entry may result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or downward pressures on the prices at which schering-plough offers formerly patented products. please refer to legal proceedings in schering-plough 10-k and 10-qs for descriptions of pending intellectual property litigation. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect schering-plough results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies patents in the u.s., potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. patent disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and other similar payments and decreased sales. patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving schering-plough patents, or the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a determination by a court that the patent is not infringed, invalid, and/or unenforceable. such an adverse determination could lead to a loss of market exclusivity. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving patents held by a third party may lead to a determination by a court that the patent is infringed, valid, and enforceable. such an adverse determination may preclude the commercialization of schering-plough products through injunctive relief, and/or may lead to significant financial damages for past and ongoing infringement. due to the uncertainty surrounding patent litigation, parties may settle patent disputes by obtaining a license under mutually agreeable terms in order to decrease risk of an interruption in manufacturing and/or marketing of its products. the potential for litigation regarding schering-plough intellectual property rights always exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to abridge schering-plough rights. even if schering-plough is ultimately successful in a particular dispute, schering-plough may incur substantial costs in defending its patents and other intellectual property rights. see patent challenges under the hatch-waxman act in item 3, legal proceedings for a list of current paragraph iv certifications for schering-plough products. multi-jurisdictional regulations, including those establishing schering-plough ability to price products, may negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. for example, in the u.s., the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are eligible for medicare. the prescription drug benefit became effective on january 1, 2006 and has resulted in increased use of generics and increased purchasing power of those negotiating on behalf of medicare recipients. in addition to legislation concerning price controls, other trends could affect schering-plough business. these trends include legislative or regulatory action relating to pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, health care reform initiatives and drug importation legislation and involuntary approval of medicines for otc use. these trends also include non-governmental initiatives and practices such as consolidation among customers, managed care practices and health care costs containment. increasingly, market approval, 15 table of contents reimbursement of products, prescribers practices and policies of third party payors may be influenced by health technology assessments by the national institute for health and clinical excellence in the uk and other such organizations. in the u.s., as a result of the government efforts to reduce medicaid expenses, managed care organizations continue to grow in influence, and schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure as managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts with respect to schering-plough products. in other countries, many governmental agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which pharmaceutical products are sold. in these markets, cost control methods including restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements; emphasis on greater use of generic drugs; and across-the-board price cuts may decrease revenues internationally. through the acquisition of obs, schering-plough acquired marketed products and pipeline projects in therapeutic areas not currently covered by schering-plough existing marketed products portfolio and pipeline projects, including women health and fertility, anesthesia, and neuroscience, each of which carry unique risks and uncertainties which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. with its acquisition of obs, schering-plough acquired products in additional therapeutic areas. each therapeutic area presents a different risk profile, including different benefits and safety issues that must be balanced by schering-plough and the regulators as various r d and marketing decisions are made; unique product liability risks; different patient and prescriber priorities; and different societal pressures. while adding new therapeutic areas may strengthen the business by increasing sales and profits; making the combined company more relevant to patients and prescribers; and diversifying enterprise risk across more areas, such positives may not outweigh the additional risk in a particular therapeutic area or could result in unanticipated costs that could be material. market forces continue to evolve and can impact schering-plough ability to sell products or the price schering-plough can charge for products. a number of intermediaries are involved between drug manufacturers, such as schering-plough, and patients who use the drugs. these intermediaries impact the patient ability, and their prescribers ability, to choose and pay for a particular drug. these intermediaries include health care providers, such as hospitals and clinics; payors and their representatives, such as employers, insurers, managed care organizations and governments; and others in the supply chain, such as pharmacists and wholesalers. examples include: payors that require a patient to first fail on a generic drug before reimbursing for a more effective, branded product that is more expensive; hospitals that stock and administer only a generic product to in-patients; managed care organizations that may penalize doctors who prescribe outside approved formularies which may not include branded products when a generic is available; and pharmacists who receive larger revenues when they dispense a generic drug over a branded drug. further, the intermediaries are not required to routinely provide transparent data to patients comparing the effectiveness of generic and branded products or to disclose their own economic benefits that are tied to steering patients toward, or requiring patients to use, generic products rather than branded products. government investigations against schering-plough could lead to the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, which could give rise to other investigations or litigation by government entities or private parties. schering-plough cannot predict whether future or pending investigations to which it may become subject would lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or restrictions on its operations. the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements and related business practices of schering-plough and other participants in the health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. these entities include the department of 16 table of contents justice and its u.s. attorney offices, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services, the fda, the federal trade commission and various state attorneys general offices. many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to exercise significant discretion. in the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings which, if resolved unfavorably, could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. in addition, an adverse outcome to a government investigation could prompt other government entities to commence investigations of schering-plough or cause those entities or private parties to bring civil claims against it. schering-plough also cannot predict whether any investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales. any such result could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. congress and certain states have initiated investigations into the timing and disclosure of the enhance clinical trial and related events, as well as the timing of certain stock sales by one executive officer, carrie cox. regardless of the merits or outcomes of any investigation, government investigations are costly, divert management attention from schering-plough business and may result in substantial damage to schering-plough reputation. there are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect schering-plough business. unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in future litigation, including litigation concerning product pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims, erisa matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products and could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. any such result could materially and adversely affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. please refer to legal proceedings in item 3 of this 10-k for descriptions of significant pending litigation. issues concerning the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance clinical trial could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture sales of vytorin and zetia, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough financial condition. see item 3, legal proceedings enhance matter for background information about the merck/schering-plough cholesterol join venture enhance clinical trial and related matters. these issues concerning the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance clinical trial could have a material adverse effect on the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture sales of vytorin and zetia . there was significant negative media surrounding the release of the top-line results. to date in 2008, ims data shows that prescriptions for vytorin and zetia have declined. if sales of such products continue to trend down further or remain at current levels for a prolonged period, schering-plough business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. in addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government investigations or the litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a material adverse effect on schering-plough financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 17 table of contents schering-plough is subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to comply with, as well as the costs of compliance with, these regulations may adversely affect schering-plough financial position and results of operations. schering-plough manufacturing facilities and clinical/research practices must meet stringent regulatory standards and are subject to regular inspections. the cost of regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance failures, can materially affect schering-plough financial position, cash flows and results of operations. failure to comply with regulations, which include pharmacovigilance reporting requirements and standards relating to clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices, can result in delays in the approval of drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of drugs, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. schering-plough also is subject to other regulations, including environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of schering-plough products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials, may decrease demand for schering-plough products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; uncertainties concerning safety labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. these situations also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general, which have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials have lead to increase volatility in market reaction. in addition, following the wake of recent product withdrawals of other companies and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the european medicines agency and the pharmaceuticals and medicines device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the u.s., on advertising and promotion and in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in the prevalence of negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of schering-plough products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or may require schering-plough to remove the product from the market. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, schering-plough is at risk for product liability claims for its products. new products and technological advances developed by schering-plough competitors may negatively affect sales. schering-plough operates in a highly competitive industry. schering-plough competes with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. many of schering-plough competitors have been conducting research and development in areas served both by schering-plough current products and by those products schering-plough is in the process of 18 table of contents developing. competitive developments that may impact schering-plough include technological advances by, patents granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and existing generic, prescription and/or otc products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture. in addition, it is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result schering-plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such products. competition from third parties may make it difficult for schering-plough to acquire or license new products or product candidates (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such transactions on terms that permit schering-plough to generate a positive financial impact. schering-plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing arrangements as a source for new products. opportunities for obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts of funding or substantial resource commitments. schering-plough competes for these opportunities against many other companies and third parties that have greater financial resources and greater ability to make other resource commitments. schering-plough may not be able to acquire or license new products, which could adversely impact schering-plough and its prospects. schering-plough may also have difficulty acquiring or licensing new products on acceptable terms. to secure rights to new products, schering-plough may have to make substantial financial or other resource commitments that could limit its ability to produce a positive financial impact from such transactions. schering-plough relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may adversely impact the business. schering-plough has several relationships with third parties on which schering-plough depends for many of its key products. very often these third parties compete with schering-plough or have interests that are not aligned with the interests of schering-plough. notwithstanding any contracts schering-plough has with these third parties, schering-plough may not be able to control or influence the conduct of these parties, or the circumstances that affect them, either of which could adversely impact schering-plough. the relationships are long-standing and, as the third party work and schering-plough work evolves, priorities and alignments also change. at times new issues develop that were not anticipated at the time contracts were negotiated. these new issues, and related uncertainties in the contracts, also can adversely impact schering-plough. schering-plough global operations expose schering-plough to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on results of operations. a majority of schering-plough operations are outside the u.s. with the acquisition of obs in late 2007, schering-plough global operations in human prescription pharmaceuticals and animal health increased. acquisitions, such as the recently completed purchase of obs, further expanded the size, scale and scope of its global operations. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict schering-plough ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to schering-plough business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. 19 table of contents the integration of the businesses of schering-plough and obs to create a combined company is a complex process and may be subject to unforeseen developments, which could impact anticipated cost savings from synergies, expected accretion to earnings and results of future operations. as the two companies are combined, the workforces of schering-plough and obs will continue to face uncertainties until the completion of the integration phase. although substantial efforts are being made to complete the integration phase as quickly as possible, it is difficult to predict how long the integration phase will last. the workforces of both companies are learning to use new processes as work is integrated and streamlined. further, for those employees of the new combined company who have not in the past worked for a u.s.-based global company, the applicable regulatory requirements are different in a number of respects. while substantial efforts are being made to facilitate smooth execution of integration including thorough training and transparent and motivational employee communications there may be an increased risk of slower execution of various work processes, repeated execution to achieve quality standards and reputational harm in the event of a compliance failure with new and complex regulatory requirements, even if such a failure were inadvertent. any such events could have an adverse impact on anticipated cost savings from synergies, anticipated accretion to earnings from the transaction and the results of future operations. the acquisition of obs expanded schering-plough animal health business worldwide, which increases the risk that negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. through the acquisition of obs animal health businesses, schering-plough global animal health business is now a more significant business segment. the combined company future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including certain that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact schering-plough results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near schering-plough main production sites could require schering-plough to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force schering-plough to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. as the animal health segment of schering-plough business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. the acquisition of obs increased schering-plough biologics human and animal health product offerings, including animal health vaccines. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions such as the u.s. and european states within the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if schering-plough loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, schering-plough may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the european medicines agency and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the u.s., a biologics license application, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval for the release of each manufactured lot. 20 table of contents manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is sometimes complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. schering-plough is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. schering-plough operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, schering-plough has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since schering-plough cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect schering-plough results of operations and/or cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, schering-plough will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. insurance coverage for product liability may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. schering-plough maintains insurance coverage with such deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to self-insurance varies accordingly. for certain products, third-party insurance may be cost prohibitive, available on limited terms or unavailable. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in its jurisdictions. significant judgment is required for determining schering-plough tax liabilities, and schering-plough tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. schering-plough 1997-2007 tax returns remain open for examination by the irs. schering-plough may be challenged by the irs and other tax authorities on positions it has taken in its income tax returns. although schering-plough believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years, based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. with the acquisition of obs organon (human pharmaceutical) and intervet (animal health) businesses, the main tax risks are correspondingly centered in the netherlands, where management, intellectual property, and beneficial rights as well as product liability have been predominantly centered. the tax position for both organon and intervet in the netherlands has been closed through 2005. in addition, schering-plough may be impacted by changes in tax laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 59risk factors 14 risk factors schering-plough future operating results and cash flows may differ materially from the results described in this 10-k due to risks and uncertainties related to schering-plough business, including those discussed 14 table of contents below. in addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report. key schering-plough products generate a significant amount of schering-plough profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. schering-plough ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of schering-plough cholesterol franchise, consisting of vytorin and zetia, and other key products such as remicade, temodar, nasonex, pegintron, clarinex, follistim, claritin, remeron and nuvaring. as a result of schering-plough dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or otc availability of schering-plough product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. there is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate financial returns because the development of novel drugs requires significant expenditures with a low probability of success. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by schering-plough in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. schering-plough success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. intellectual property protection for innovation is an important contributor to schering-plough profitability. generic forms of schering-plough products may be introduced to the market as a result of the expiration of patents covering schering-plough products, a successful challenge to schering-plough patents, or the at-risk launch of a generic version of a schering-plough product, which may have a material and negative effect on results of operations. intellectual property protection is critical to schering-plough ability to successfully commercialize its products. patents relating to schering-plough significant products may be of material importance to schering-plough. upon the expiration or the successful challenge of schering-plough patents covering a product, competitors may introduce lower-priced generic or similar branded versions of that product, which may include schering-plough well-established products. a generic manufacturer may file an abbreviated new drug application seeking approval after the expiration of the applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the 15 table of contents innovator new drug application are invalid, not infringed or unenforceable. this allegation is commonly known as a paragraph iv certification. the innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic manufacturer to enforce its patents. generic manufacturers have used paragraph iv certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is anticipated that this trend will continue. in recent years, some generic manufacturers have launched generic versions of products before the ultimate resolution of patent litigation (commonly known as at-risk product launches). generic entry may result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or downward pressures on the prices at which schering-plough offers formerly patented products. please refer to legal proceedings in item 3 in this 10-k for descriptions of pending intellectual property litigation. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect schering-plough results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies u.s. patents, potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. patent disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and other similar payments and decreased sales. patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. an adverse result in a patent dispute involving schering-plough patents, or the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a determination by a court that the patent is not infringed, is invalid, and/or is unenforceable. such an adverse determination could lead to schering-plough loss of market exclusivity. an adverse result in a patent dispute alleging that schering-plough has infringed patents held by a third party may lead to a determination by a court that the patent is infringed, valid, and enforceable. such an adverse determination may preclude the commercialization of schering-plough products and/or may lead to significant financial damages for past and ongoing infringement. due to the uncertainty surrounding patent litigation, parties may settle patent disputes by obtaining a license under mutually agreeable terms in order to decrease risk of an interruption in manufacturing and/or marketing of its products. the potential for litigation regarding schering-plough intellectual property rights always exists and litigation may be initiated by third parties attempting to abridge schering-plough rights. even if schering-plough is ultimately successful in a particular dispute, schering-plough may incur substantial costs in defending its patents and other intellectual property rights. see patent challenges under the hatch-waxman act in item 3, legal proceedings for a list of current paragraph iv certifications for schering-plough products. multi-jurisdictional regulations, including those establishing schering-plough ability to price products, may negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. schering-plough faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. for example, in the u.s., the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are eligible for medicare. the prescription drug benefit became effective on january 1, 2006, and has resulted in increased use of generics and increased purchasing power of those negotiating on behalf of medicare recipients, which in turn has resulted in increased price pressure on schering-plough products. in addition to legislation concerning price controls, other trends could adversely affect schering-plough sales and profit margins. these trends include legislative or regulatory action relating to pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, health care reform initiatives, drug importation legislation and involuntary approval of medicines for otc use. these trends also include non-governmental initiatives and practices such as consolidation among customers, managed care practices and health care costs containment. increasingly, market approval, reimbursement of products, prescribers practices and policies of third-party payors may be 16 table of contents influenced by health technology assessments by the national institute for health and clinical excellence in the uk and other such organizations. in the u.s., as a result of the government efforts to reduce health care expenditures and other payors efforts to reduce health care costs, schering-plough faces increased pricing pressure as payors continue to seek price discounts with respect to schering-plough products. in other countries, many governmental agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which pharmaceutical products are sold. in these markets, cost control methods including restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements; emphasis on greater use of generic drugs; and across-the-board price cuts may decrease revenues internationally. through the acquisition of obs, schering-plough acquired marketed products and pipeline projects in new therapeutic areas, including women health and central nervous system, each of which carry unique risks and uncertainties which could have a negative impact on future results of operations and cash flows. with its acquisition of obs, schering-plough acquired products in additional therapeutic areas. each therapeutic area presents a different risk profile, including different benefits and safety issues that must be balanced by schering-plough and regulators as various research and development and marketing decisions are made; unique product liability risks; different patient and prescriber priorities; and different societal pressures. while adding new therapeutic areas may strengthen schering-plough business by increasing sales and profits; making the combined company more relevant to patients and prescribers; and diversifying enterprise risk across more areas, such positives may not outweigh the additional risk in a particular therapeutic area or could result in unanticipated costs that could have a significant adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows. market forces continue to evolve and can impact schering-plough ability to sell products or the price schering-plough can charge for products. a number of intermediaries are involved between drug manufacturers, such as schering-plough, and patients who use the drugs. these intermediaries impact the patient ability, and their prescribers ability, to choose and pay for a particular drug, which may adversely affect sales of a particular schering-plough drug. these intermediaries include health care providers, such as hospitals and clinics; payors and their representatives, such as employers, insurers, managed care organizations and governments; and others in the supply chain, such as pharmacists and wholesalers. examples include: payors that require a patient to first fail on one or more generic, or less expensive branded drugs, before reimbursing for a more effective, branded product that is more expensive; payors that are increasing patient co-payment amounts; hospitals that stock and administer only a generic product to in-patients; managed care organizations that may penalize doctors who prescribe outside approved formularies which may not include branded products when a generic is available; and pharmacists who receive larger revenues when they dispense a generic drug over a branded drug. further, the intermediaries are not required to routinely provide transparent data to patients comparing the effectiveness of generic and branded products or to disclose their own economic benefits that are tied to steering patients toward, or requiring patients to use, generic products rather than branded products. government investigations involving schering-plough could lead to the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, which could give rise to other investigations or litigation by government entities or private parties. schering-plough cannot predict whether future or pending investigations to which it may become subject would lead to a judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or restrictions on its operations. the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements and related business practices of schering-plough and other participants in the health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. these entities include the department of 17 table of contents justice and its u.s. attorneys offices, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services, the fda, the federal trade commission and various state attorneys general offices. many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to exercise significant discretion. in the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings which, if resolved unfavorably, could subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. in addition, an adverse outcome to a government investigation could prompt other government entities to commence investigations of schering-plough or cause those entities or private parties to bring civil claims against it. schering-plough also cannot predict whether any investigations will affect its marketing practices or sales. any such result could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its business. a number of governmental entities in the u.s. have made inquiries or initiated investigations into the timing and disclosures relating to the enhance clinical trial. these include several letters from congress, investigations by state attorneys general offices, and requests for information from u.s. attorneys offices and the department of justice. regardless of the merits or outcomes of any investigation, government investigations are costly, divert management attention from schering-plough business and may result in substantial damage to schering-plough reputation. see item 3, legal proceedings litigation and investigations relating to the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture for further information about the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance clinical trials and related matters. there are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or business. unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in future litigation, including litigation concerning product pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims, erisa matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products and subject schering-plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs. any such result could materially and adversely affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or business. further, aggressive plaintiffs counsel often file litigation on a wide variety of allegations whenever there is media attention or negative discussion about the efficacy or safety of a product and whenever the stock price is volatile; even when the allegations are groundless, schering-plough may need to expend considerable funds and other resources to respond to such litigation. please refer to legal proceedings in item 3 in this 10-k for descriptions of significant pending litigation. issues concerning the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture clinical trials could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture sales of vytorin and zetia, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on schering-plough financial condition. see item 3, legal proceedings litigation and investigations relating to the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture for further information about the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance clinical trials and related matters. there was significant negative media surrounding the release of the enhance results. as the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture enhance and seas clinical trial results are further reviewed, vytorin and zetia may receive additional media attention, in connection with these and other clinical 18 table of contents trials, which could lead to reduced sales, or affect enrollment in clinical trials. current or future investigations, analysis of the enhance, seas, or other clinical trials, data by various agencies, litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these products, or the securities and other class action litigation relating to such matters could, if resolved unfavorably to schering-plough or the joint venture, have a material adverse effect on schering-plough results of operations, cash flow and financial position. schering-plough and third parties acting on its behalf are subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to comply with, as well as the costs of compliance with, these regulations may adversely affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flow and financial position. manufacturing and research practices of schering-plough and third parties acting on its behalf must meet stringent regulatory standards and are subject to regular inspections. the cost of regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance failures, can materially affect schering-plough results of operations, cash flow and financial position. failure to comply with regulations, which include pharmacovigilance reporting requirements and standards relating to clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices, can result in suspension or termination of clinical studies, delays or failure in obtaining the approval of drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of drugs, withdrawal of approval, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. schering-plough also is subject to other regulations, including environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of schering-plough products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials, may decrease demand for schering-plough products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals of other companies and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the emea and the pmda have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the u.s., on advertising and promotion and in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of schering-plough products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require schering-plough to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current 19 table of contents environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, schering-plough is at risk for product liability claims for its products. new products and technological advances developed by schering-plough competitors may negatively affect sales. schering-plough operates in a highly competitive industry. schering-plough competes with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. many of schering-plough competitors have been conducting research and development in areas served both by schering-plough current products and by those products schering-plough is in the process of developing. competitive developments that may impact schering-plough include technological advances by, patents granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and existing generic, prescription and/or otc products that compete with products of schering-plough or the merck/schering-plough cholesterol joint venture. in addition, it is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result schering-plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such products. competition from third parties may make it difficult for schering-plough to acquire or license new products or product candidates (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such transactions on terms that permit schering-plough to generate a positive financial impact. schering-plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing arrangements as a source for new products. opportunities for obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts of funding or substantial resource commitments. schering-plough competes for these opportunities against many other companies and third parties that have greater financial resources and greater ability to make other resource commitments. schering-plough may not be able to acquire or license new products, which could adversely impact schering-plough and its prospects. schering-plough may also have difficulty acquiring or licensing new products on acceptable terms. to secure rights to new products, schering-plough may have to make substantial financial or other resource commitments that could limit its ability to produce a positive financial impact from such transactions. schering-plough relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may adversely impact the business. schering-plough has several relationships with third parties on which schering-plough depends for many of its key products. very often these third parties compete with schering-plough or have interests that are not aligned with the interests of schering-plough. notwithstanding any contracts schering-plough has with these third parties, schering-plough may not be able to control or influence the conduct of these parties, or the circumstances that affect them, either of which could adversely impact schering-plough. the relationships are long-standing and, as the third party work and schering-plough work evolves, priorities and alignments also change. at times new issues develop that were not anticipated at the time contracts were negotiated. these new issues, and related uncertainties in the contracts, also can adversely impact schering-plough. schering-plough global operations expose schering-plough to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on results of operations. a majority of schering-plough operations are outside the u.s. with the acquisition of obs in late 2007, schering-plough global operations in prescription pharmaceuticals and animal health increased. acquisitions, such as the recently completed purchase of obs, further expanded the size, scale and scope of schering-plough global operations. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; 20 table of contents multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict schering-plough ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to schering-plough business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. the integration of the businesses of schering-plough and obs to create a combined company is a complex process and may be subject to unforeseen developments, which could have an adverse impact on the results of future operations. as the two companies are combined, the workforces of schering-plough and obs will continue to face uncertainties until the completion of the integration phase. cultural integration particularly in trans-atlantic transactions are complex and can take several years. although substantial progress has been made towards completing the integration phase of the obs acquisition as quickly as possible, it is difficult to predict how long the integration phase will last. the workforces of both companies are learning to use new processes as work is integrated and streamlined. further, for those employees of the new combined company who have not in the past worked for a u.s.-based global company, the applicable regulatory requirements are different in a number of respects. while substantial efforts are being made to facilitate smooth execution of integration including thorough training and transparent and motivational employee communications there may be an increased risk of slower execution of various work processes, repeated execution to achieve quality standards and reputational harm in the event of a compliance failure with new and complex regulatory requirements, even if such a failure were inadvertent. any such events could have an adverse impact on the results of future operations. the acquisition of obs expanded schering-plough animal health business worldwide, which increases the risk that negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. through the acquisition of obs animal health business, schering-plough global animal health business is a more significant business segment. the combined company future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact schering-plough results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near schering-plough main production sites could require schering-plough to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force schering-plough to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of schering-plough business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. 21 table of contents the acquisition of obs increased schering-plough biologics human and animal health product offerings, including animal health vaccines. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions such as the u.s. and european states within the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if schering-plough loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, schering-plough may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the emea and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the u.s., a biologics license application, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval for the release of each manufactured lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, schering-plough may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. there currently is no process in the u.s. for the submission or approval of generic biologics based upon abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another approved biologic, but there is public dialogue at the fda and in congress regarding the scientific and statutory basis upon which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on biologics, could be approved and marketed in the u.s. schering-plough cannot be certain when congress will create a statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars, and schering-plough cannot predict what impact, if any, the approval of biosimilars would have on the sales of schering-plough products in the u.s. in europe, however, the emea has issued guidelines for approving biological products through an abbreviated pathway, and biosimilars have been approved in europe. if a biosimilar version of one of schering-plough products were approved in europe, it could have a negative effect on sales of the product. schering-plough is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. schering-plough operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, schering-plough has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. 22 table of contents since schering-plough cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect schering-plough results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, schering-plough will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. the current stock market and credit market conditions are extremely volatile and unpredictable. it is difficult to predict whether these conditions will continue or worsen, and, if so, whether the conditions would impact schering-plough and whether such impact could be material. schering-plough has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including commercial banks, investment banks, suppliers and customers (which include wholesalers, managed care organizations and governments) that may be unstable or may become unstable in the current economic environment. any such instability may impact these parties ability to fulfill contractual obligations to schering-plough or they might limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with schering-plough. customers may also reduce spending during times of economic uncertainty. also, it is possible that suppliers may be negatively impacted. in such events, there could be a resulting material and adverse impact on operations and results of operations. although schering-plough currently has no plan to access the equity or debt markets to meet capital or liquidity needs, constriction and volatility in these markets may restrict future flexibility to do so if unforeseen capital or liquidity needs were to arise. further, the current conditions have resulted in severe downward pressure on the stock and credit markets, which could further reduce the return available on invested corporate cash, reduce the return on investments held by the pension plans and thereby potentially increase funding obligations, all of which if severe and sustained could have material and adverse impacts on schering-plough results of operations, financial position and cash flows. insurance coverage for product liability may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. schering-plough maintains insurance coverage with such deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to self-insurance varies accordingly. for certain products, third-party insurance is increasingly cost prohibitive, available on more limited terms than past coverage, or unavailable. schering-plough self-insures substantially all of its risk as it relates to products liability, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. schering-plough continually assesses the best way to provide for its insurance needs. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. schering-plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining schering-plough tax liabilities, and schering-plough tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. schering-plough believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in addition, schering-plough may be impacted by changes in tax laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the market risk disclosures as set forth in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 63risk factors 23 cautionary factors that may affect future results 35 risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings below. on july 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the simvastatin and ezetimibe in aortic stenosis ( seas ) study were announced. seas was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with vytorin 10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin therapy. vytorin failed to meet its primary endpoint for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. in the study, patients in the group who took vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than the group who took placebo. there was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group who took vytorin versus those who took placebo. cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ systems. the company believes the cancer finding in seas is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the available data, does not support an association with vytorin . in august 2008, the fda announced that it was investigating the results from the seas trial. in december 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the data from the seas trial as well as a review of interim data from the study of heart and renal protection ( sharp ) and improve-it trials. based on currently available information, the fda indicated it believed it is unlikely that vytorin or zetia increase the risk of cancer-related death. the sharp trial is expected to be completed in 2010. the improve-it trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. in the improve-it trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by the data safety monitoring board for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. that interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010. the company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those data; however, the company does not believe that changes in the clinical use of vytorin are warranted. 8 table of contents astrazeneca lp in 1982, old merck entered into an agreement with astra ab ( astra ) to develop and market astra products in the united states. in 1994, old merck and astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of astra new prescription medicines in the united states including prilosec ( omeprazole), the first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. in 1998, old merck and astra restructured the joint venture whereby old merck acquired astra interest in the joint venture, renamed kbi inc. ( kbi ), and contributed kbi operating assets to a new u.s. limited partnership named astra pharmaceuticals, l.p. (the partnership ), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, astra usa, inc., to the partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. the partnership, renamed astrazeneca lp ( azlp ) upon astra 1999 merger with zeneca group plc (the astrazeneca merger ), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which kbi retained rights. the company earns certain partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future kbi products. the partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the partnership agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former astra usa, inc. products, and a preferential return representing the company share of undistributed partnership azlp generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) earnings. the astrazeneca merger triggered a partial redemption in march 2008 of old merck interest in certain azlp product rights. upon this redemption, old merck received $4.3 billion from azlp. this amount was based primarily on a multiple of old merck average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former astra usa, inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the limited partner share of agreed value ). old merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008. the partial redemption of old merck interest in the product rights did not result in a change in old merck 1% limited partnership interest. as described in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below, after certain adjustments, old merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion in 2008. in conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, astra purchased an option (the asset option ) for a payment of $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy old merck interest in the kbi products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines nexium (esomeprazole) and prilosec (the non-ppi products ). astrazeneca can exercise the asset option in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price of $647 million which represents the net present value as of march 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by the company from the non-ppi products (the appraised value ). on february 26, 2010, astrazeneca notified the company that it was exercising the asset option. old merck also had the right to require astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the appraised value. in february 2008, old merck advised astrazeneca that it would not exercise the asset option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred but will be recognized when the asset option is consummated. in addition, in 1998, old merck granted astra an option (the shares option ) to buy old merck common stock interest in kbi and, therefore, old merck interest in nexium and prilosec , exercisable two years after astra exercise of the asset option. astra can also exercise the shares option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as astrazeneca asset option has been exercised in 2010. the exercise price for the shares option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of nexium and prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true-up mechanisms. sanofi pasteur msd in 1994, old merck and pasteur m rieux connaught (now sanofi pasteur s.a.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing eu and the european free trade association. old merck and sanofi pasteur contributed, among other things, their european vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as pasteur m rieux msd, s.n.c. (now sanofi pasteur msd, s.n.c.). the joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in belgium, italy, germany, spain, france, austria, ireland, sweden, portugal, the netherlands, switzerland and the united kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory. 9 table of contents johnson johnson o merck consumer pharmaceuticals company in 1989, old merck formed a joint venture with johnson johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for u.s. consumers. this 50% owned joint venture also includes canada. significant joint venture products are pepcid ac (famotidine), an otc form of old merck ulcer medication pepcid (famotidine), as well as pepcid complete, an otc product that combines the company ulcer medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide). merial limited in 1997, old merck and rh ne-poulenc s.a. (now sanofi-aventis) combined their respective animal health businesses to form merial limited ( merial ), a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand-alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well-being and performance of a wide range of animal species. on september 17, 2009, old merck sold its 50% interest in merial to sanofi-aventis for $4 billion in cash. the sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in other income (expense), net in 2009. also, in connection with the sale of merial, old merck, sanofi-aventis and schering-plough signed a call option agreement. under the terms of the call option agreement, following the closing of the merger, sanofi-aventis has an option to require the company to combine its intervet/schering-plough animal health business with merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally by the company and sanofi-aventis. as part of the call option agreement, the value of merial has been fixed at $8 billion. the minimum total value received by the company and its affiliates for contributing intervet/schering-plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of intervet/schering-plough which is fixed at a minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional payment by sanofi-aventis of $750 million. based on the valuation exercise of intervet/schering-plough and the customary transaction adjustments, if merial and intervet/schering-plough are combined, a payment may be required to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally owned by the company and sanofi-aventis. this payment would true-up the value of the contributions so that they are equal. any formation of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis is subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust review in the united states and europe. prior to the closing of the merger, the agreements provided old merck with certain rights to terminate the call option for a fee of $400 million. the recognition of the termination fee was deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions that could have triggered its payment lapsed. licenses in 1998, a subsidiary of schering-plough entered into a licensing agreement with centocor, inc., now a johnson johnson company, to market remicade, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. in 2005, schering-plough subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize simponi , a fully human monoclonal antibody. the company has exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the united states, japan and certain asian markets. in december 2007, schering-plough and centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both remicade and simponi , extending the company rights to exclusively market remicade to match the duration of the company exclusive marketing rights for simponi . in addition, schering-plough and centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to simponi auto-injector delivery system. on october 6, 2009, the ec approved simponi as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations a novel auto-injector and a prefilled syringe. as a result, the company marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of simponi within the eu following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the eu. after operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the company is entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of profits on the company distribution in the company marketing territory. beginning in 2010, the share of profits will change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. the company may independently develop and market simponi for a crohn disease indication in its territories, with an option for centocor to participate. centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding to terminate this agreement and the company rights to distribute these products. see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings below. 10 table of contents competition the markets in which the company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. the company operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic competition as the company products mature. in addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. an adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. the effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. with its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. the company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures, and licenses and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. however, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. for example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the company products in that therapeutic category. global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access. in addressing cost containment pressure, the company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. in addition, pricing flexibility across the company product portfolio has encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of increasing cost pressures on individual medicines. outside the united states, in difficult government budgetary environments, the company has worked with payers to encourage allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes, limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of innovative products to benefit patients. the company also is working with governments in many emerging markets in eastern europe, latin america and asia to encourage them to increase their investments in health and thereby improve their citizens access to medicines. in addition, certain countries within the eu, recognizing the economic importance of the research-based pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives to improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation. the company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on healthcare budgets. in the united states, major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of congress. a final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. the impact of such actions, as well as budget pressures on governments in the united states and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. as the company continues to successfully launch new products, contribute to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a strong position in the changing economic environment. although no one can predict the outcome of these and other legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the company believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. access to medicines the company is also committed to improving access to medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world. to cite just one example, the african comprehensive hiv/aids partnerships in 11 table of contents botswana, a partnership between the government of botswana, the bill melinda gates foundation and the merck company foundation/merck co., inc., is supporting botswana response to hiv/aids through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to hiv prevention, care, treatment, and support. to further catalyze access to hiv medicines in developing countries, the company makes no profit on the sale of its current hiv/aids medicines in the world poorest countries and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its hiv/aids medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium-income countries. in february 2007, old merck announced that it had again reduced the price of stocrin in the least developed countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic. through these and other actions, the company is working independently and with partners in both the public and private sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to medicines in the developing world. addressing these barriers requires investments in education, training and health infrastructure and to improve capacity achieved through increased international assistance and sustainable financing. in addition, old merck has committed to providing rotateq to the global alliance for vaccines and immunization-eligible countries at prices at which it does not profit. also, in 2009, old merck and the wellcome trust established the msd wellcome trust hilleman laboratories, a joint venture in india to develop vaccines for millions of people in some of the poorest areas of the world. government regulation the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. of particular importance is the fda in the united states, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. in 1997, the food and drug administration modernization act (the fda modernization act ) was passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the fda and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical devices, and food. the legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new products. a key provision of the legislation is the re-authorization of the prescription drug user fee act of 1992, which permits the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment fda resources earmarked for the review of human drug applications. this helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of safe and effective new drugs. in the united states, the government expanded access for senior citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, which was signed into law in december 2003. prescription drug coverage began on january 1, 2006. this legislation supports the company goal of improving access to medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market-based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. at the same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. as mentioned above, in the united states major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of congress. a final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. the u.s. congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the government role in pharmaceutical pricing in the medicare program. these proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the secretary of the health and human services intervening in price negotiations between medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. they may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in medicare drug benefit plans. in addition, congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. for many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval process for new drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs, and formularies. the company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. the company continues to work with private and public payors to slow increases in healthcare spending. also, u.s. federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for 12 table of contents which they pay. for example, federal laws require the company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain public health service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined non-federal average manufacturer price for purchases by certain components of the federal government such as the department of veterans affairs and the department of defense. initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients beyond those who are eligible for medicaid. under the federal vaccines for children entitlement program, the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of medicaid-eligible, uninsured, native american and certain underinsured children. old merck was awarded a cdc contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the vaccines for children program. outside the united states, the company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where it does business. there, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. the eu has adopted directives concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. the company policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the company business. in january 2008, the ec launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of eu competition law. as part of this inquiry, old merck offices in germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in january 2008. the preliminary report of the ec was issued on november 28, 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in july 2009. the final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed to these phenomena. while the ec has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the ec has not alleged that the company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. the company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. such actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. under certain circumstances, the company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. the company believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment. privacy and data protection the company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the united states and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. distribution the company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. the company professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the company pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations. the company professional representatives communicate the safety and value of the company animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. the company otc, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets. 13 table of contents raw materials raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the company business. patents, trademarks and licenses patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents may cover products per se , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. the protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. the fda modernization act includes a pediatric exclusivity provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the united states for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. these exclusivity provisions were re-authorized by the prescription drug user fee act passed in september 2007. current u.s. patent law provides additional patent term under patent term restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review before the fda. 14 table of contents patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the company normally provide market exclusivity. the company has the following key u.s. patent protection (including patent term restoration and pediatric exclusivity) for major marketed products: product (1) year of expiration (in u.s.) cozaar 2010 hyzaar 2010 crixivan 2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation) maxalt 2012 (compound)/2014 (other) singulair 2012 cancidas 2013 (compound)/2015 (composition) propecia (2) 2013 (formulation/use) asmanex 2014 (use)/2018 (formulation) avelox 2014 integrilin 2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation) nasonex 2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation) temodar (3) 2014 emend 2015 follistim/puregon 2015 pegintron 2015 (conjugates)/2020 (mature ifn-alpha) zolinza 2015 invanz 2016 (compound)/2017 (composition) zostavax 2016 zetia/vytorin 2017 nuvaring 2018 (delivery system) noxafil 2019 rotateq 2019 clarinex (4 ) 2020 (formulation) comvax 2020 (method of making/vectors) intron a 2020 recombivax 2020 (method of making/vectors) saphris/sycrest 2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending patent term restoration application) januvia/janumet 2022 (compound)/2026 (salt) isentress 2023 gardasil 2026 (method of making/use/product by process) (1) compound patent unless otherwise noted. (2) by agreement, dr. reddy laboratories may launch a generic on january 1, 2013. (3) in january 2010, a court held the patent for temodar to be unenforceable. that decision is being appealed. see item 3. legal proceedings patent litigation below. (4) by virtue of litigation settlement, generics have been given the right to enter the market as of 2012. while the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the united states and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. the effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 15 table of contents the patents that provide u.s. market exclusivity for cozaar and hyzaar expire in april 2010. in addition, the patent for cozaar will expire in a number of major european markets in march 2010. hyzaar lost patent protection in major european markets in february 2010. the company expects that sales of these products will decline rapidly after expiration of these patents, particularly in the united states since there are expected to be multiple sources of generic products at the time of patent expiry. in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for singulair expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2012 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. additions to market exclusivity are sought in the united states and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the united states and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties. for further information with respect to the company patents, see item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings patent litigation below. worldwide, all of the company important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalties received during 2009 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $218.9 million. merck also paid royalties amounting to $1.27 billion in 2009 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 17,200 people are employed in the company research activities. research and development expenses (which included restructuring costs) were $5.8 billion in 2009, $4.8 billion in 2008 and $4.9 billion in 2007. the company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. another important component of the company science-based diversification is based on expanding the company portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and rnai. further, merck moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division, merck bioventures, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. the company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. the integration plans for research and development are focused on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the company late-stage pipeline. during 2009, merck continued implementing a new model for its basic research global operating strategy at legacy merck research laboratories sites. the new model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. additionally, across all 16 table of contents disease area priorities, the company strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the company early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success. the company clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and women health. the company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the new drug application ( nda ) for a drug or the biologics license application ( bla ) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company scientists discover a new small molecule compound that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase i studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase ii studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound usefulness. if data from the phase ii trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase iii trials to confirm the compound efficacy and safety. upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase i clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase ii studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase iii trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda is submitted and received by the fda. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act, the fda review period targets for ndas or supplemental ndas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. within 60 days after receipt of an nda, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. once the review timelines are defined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company own initiative or the fda request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than 180 days. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter. research and development update in connection with the merger, the company is assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential compounds for development. the company has completed the prioritization of its clinical development 17 table of contents programs. the company is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. the company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be completed by the first half of 2010. in connection with this process, the company may recognize non-cash impairment charges for the cancellation of certain legacy schering-plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the merger. these non-cash impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from the company non-gaap earnings, could be material to the company future gaap earnings. the company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. additionally, the company has 19 drug candidates in phase iii development. mk-6621, vernakalant (iv), is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing regulatory review in the eu. in april 2009, old merck and cardiome pharma corp. ( cardiome ) announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant which provides merck exclusive rights outside of the united states, canada and mexico to the intravenous formulation of vernakalant. vernakalent (oral) is currently in phase ii development. merck has exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. sch 418131, mff, is a combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone ( asmanex ) and formoterol ( foradil ). the company is aiming to create a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments together. in july 2009, schering-plough announced that it had filed an nda with the fda for mff. mff is also currently under regulatory review in the eu. sch 900121, nomac/e2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women produce naturally. the drug is currently under regulatory review in the eu. it is in phase iii development for the u.s. market. sch 900274, saphris, asenapine, a central nervous system compound for bipolar i disorder and schizophrenia, is currently undergoing regulatory review in the eu. the fda approved saphris in august 2009. sch 900616, bridion, sugammadex, is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. it differs from other reversal agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant begins to wear off. bridion has received regulatory approval in the eu, australia, new zealand and japan, and is under regulatory review in other markets, including the united states. prior to the merger, schering-plough received a complete response letter from the fda for bridion. following further communication from the fda, the company is assessing the agency feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. sch 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis c protease inhibitor currently under development. boceprevir is fully enrolled in its phase iii program, which the company expects to conclude in mid-2010. the company expects to submit an nda to the fda for boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment-experienced and treatment-na ve patients with hepatitis c. mk-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mtor (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. the drug candidate is being jointly developed and commercialized with ariad pharmaceuticals, inc., under an agreement entered into in 2007. a phase iii study (succeed) in patients with metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas is underway. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda for ridaforolimus with the fda in 2010, subject to a review of the results from the planned interim analysis of succeed. sch 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet ( ait ) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed by the company. in november 2009, sch 697243 met the primary endpoint in a phase iii study of adult subjects in the united states with a history of grass pollen induced rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. the investigational grass ait treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease. sch 039641, an ait for ragweed allergy, is also in phase iii development for the u.s. market. 18 table of contents sch 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. in november 2009, merck announced completion of patient enrollment of more than 26,000 patients in the tra 2 p-timi 50 clinical trial, a phase iii, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational study. the trial will assess the ability of sch 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin plus an adp inhibitor) in patients who have previously experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral arterial disease. sch 530348 is also being studied in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the ongoing phase iii thrombin receptor antagonist for clinical event reduction in acute coronary syndrome trial, led by the duke clinical research institute. the company anticipates filing an nda for vorapaxar with the fda in 2011. mk-2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin f2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. in april 2009, old merck and santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost. as previously disclosed, old merck submitted for filing an nda with the fda for mk-0653c, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the fda refused to file the application. the fda has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed and the company is assessing the fda response and anticipates filing in 2011. mk-0431c, a candidate currently in phase iii clinical development, combines januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda for mk-0431c with the fda in 2011. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis. osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. in september 2009, data from a phase iib clinical study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st annual meeting of the american society for bone and mineral research which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density ( bmd ) were reversed over the next year, while bmd at the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the start of the study. additionally, three years of treatment with odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in bmd at key fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. odanacatib is currently in phase iii clinical trials and is being evaluated in a large-scale, global outcomes study to determine its effects on vertebral, hip and non-vertebral fractures. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda with the fda in 2012. v503 is a nine-valent hpv vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer-causing hpv types. the phase iii clinical program is underway and merck anticipates filing a bla with the fda in 2012. mk-0524a is a drug candidate that combines extended-release ( er ) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. mk-0524a has demonstrated the ability to lower ldl-cholesterol ( ldl-c or bad cholesterol), raise hdl-cholesterol ( hdl-c or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. high ldl-c, low hdl-c and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. in april 2008, old merck received a non-approvable action letter from the fda in response to its nda for mk-0524a. at a meeting to discuss the letter, the fda stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that old merck wait for the results of the treatment of hdl to reduce the incidence of vascular events ( hps2-thrive ) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. the company anticipates filing an nda with the fda for mk-0524a in 2012. mk-0524a has been approved in more than 45 countries outside the united states for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of ldl-c and triglycerides and low hdl-c) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as tredaptive (or as cordaptive in certain countries). tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. 19 table of contents mk-0524b is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising hdl-c and lowering triglycerides from er niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. merck will not seek approval for mk-0524b in the united states until it files its complete response relating to mk-0524a. mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by raising hdl-c and reducing ldl-c without raising blood pressure. in november 2009, merck announced that in a phase iib study in 589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or co-administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and co-administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping active therapy with anacetrapib. the effect of cetp inhibition on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. a phase iii trial, titled define, is ongoing to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with coronary heart disease. the company anticipates filing an nda with the fda beyond 2015. as previously disclosed, in 2009, old merck announced it was delaying the filing of the u.s. application for telcagepant (mk-0974), the company investigational calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp )-receptor antagonist for the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. the decision was based on findings from a phase iia exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. the daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in phase iii studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. other studies with telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine continue. following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study as part of the overall phase iii program for telcagepant. the results of this study will inform planned filings for approval. sch 900395, acadesine, is a potential first-in class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion-injury in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. patient enrollment in the red cabg phase iii clinical trial was initiated in 2009. sch 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of hiv infection (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two phase iii studies in this patient population, and it was announced in january 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met. merck will not submit an nda to the fda for vicriviroc in treatment-experienced hiv-infected patients at this time but will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first-line therapy for treatment-naive patients. as previously disclosed, in 2007, cubist pharmaceuticals, inc. ( cubist ) entered into a license agreement with old merck for the development and commercialization of cubicin (daptomycin for injection, mk-3009) in japan. merck will develop and commercialize cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary, banyu pharmaceutical co., ltd. cubist commercializes cubicin in the united states. mk-3009 is currently in phase iii development. mk-4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in phase iii development. sch 900962, elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the ec for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a gnrh antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in phase iii development in the united states. merck has terminated the internal clinical development program for esmirtazapine (sch 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia for strategic reasons. as previously disclosed, in 2009, old merck announced that preliminary results for the pivotal phase iii study of rolofylline (mk-7418), its investigational medicine for the treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. old merck terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline. the chart below reflects the company current research pipeline as of february 12, 2010. candidates shown in phase iii include specific products. candidates shown in phase ii include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for 20 table of contents commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number or sch-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. candidates in phase i, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase ii allergy sch 900237 (2) anemia mk-2578 asthma mk-0476c atrial fibrillation mk-6621 (vernakalant [oral]) cancer mk-0646 (dalotuzumab) sch 727965 (dinaciclib) sch 900776 clostridium difficile infection mk-3415a copd sch 527123 diabetes mk-0941 mk-3577 hepatitis c mk-7009 (vaniprevir) hiv sch 417690 (vicriviroc) hot flashes mk-6913 hypertension mk-0736 insomnia mk-6096 osteoporosis mk-5442 parkinson disease sch 420814 (preladenant) pediatric vaccine v419 progeria sch 066336, sarasar (lonafarnib) schizophrenia mk-8998 sch 900435 staph infection v710 thrombosis mk-4448 (betrixaban) phase iii (6) allergy sch 697243, grass pollen (2) sch 039641, ragweed (2) anesthesia reversal sch 900616 (sugammadex) (u.s.) (4) atherosclerosis mk-0524a (extended-release niacin/ laropiprant) (u.s.) (3) mk-0524b (extended-release niacin/ laropiprant/simvastin) mk-0859 (anacetrapib) cervical cancer v503 contraception sch 900121 (nomac/e2) (u.s.) diabetes mk-0431c ( januvia /pioglitazone) fertility sch 900962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (u.s.) (3) glaucoma mk-2452 (tafluprost) (u.s.) (4) hepatitis c sch 503034 (boceprevir) insomnia mk-4305 ischemia-reperfusion injury sch 900395 (acadesine) migraine mk-0974 (telcagepant) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) sarcoma mk-8669 (ridaforolimus) staph infection mk-3009 (daptomycin for injection) (5) thrombosis sch 530348 (vorapaxar) (tra) under review asthma sch 418131 (momestasone/ formoterol combination) (u.s./eu) atrial fibrillation mk-6621 (vernakalant [iv]) (eu) (1) contraception sch 900121 (nomac/e2) (eu) schizophrenia/bipolar i disorder sch 900274 (asenapine) (eu) footnotes: (1) exclusive rights outside of the united states, canada and mexico to vernakalant (iv) (2) north american rights only (3) approved in certain countries in europe (4) approved in certain countries in europe and japan (5) japanese rights only (6) mk-0653c fixed dose combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin is anticipated to be submitted to the u.s. fda in 2011 and commercialized when regulatory and legal requirements have been satisfied employees as of december 31, 2009, the company had approximately 100,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 42,000 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 28% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. in october 2008, old merck announced a global restructuring program (the 2008 restructuring program ) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. as part of the 2008 restructuring program, the company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies across all areas of the company worldwide by the end of 2011. about 40% of the total 21 table of contents reductions will occur in the united states. as part of the 2008 restructuring program, old merck is streamlining management layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid-level executives globally. prior to the merger, schering-plough commenced a productivity transformation program, which was designed to reduce and avoid costs and increase productivity. in february 2010, the company announced the first phase of a new global restructuring program (the merger restructuring program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy merck and legacy schering-plough businesses. this merger restructuring program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. as part of the first phase of the merger restructuring program, by the end of 2012, the company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15% across all areas of the company worldwide. the company also plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first phase of the program. these workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. in 2009, merck incurred capital expenditures of approximately $33.6 million for environmental protection facilities. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16.6 million in 2009, $34.5 million in 2008, $19.5 million in 2007, and are estimated at $55 million for the years 2010 through 2013. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $161.8 million at december 31, 2009. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. geographic area information the company operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states were 47% of sales in 2009, 44% of sales in 2008 and 39% of sales in 2007. the increase in proportion of sales outside the united states in 2009 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of schering-plough following the close of the merger. the company worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. as a result of the merger, merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company business is discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investor information portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to 22 table of contents section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors six standing committees are available on the company website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces as described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. certain of the company major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs, the company expects a significant decline in sales of those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. as product patents for several of the company products have recently expired, or are about to expire, in the united states and in other countries, the company faces strong competition from lower priced generic drugs. loss of patent protection for one of the company products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the patents that provide u.s. market exclusivity for cozaar and hyzaar expire in april 2010. in addition, the patent for cozaar will expire in a number of major european markets in march 2010. hyzaar lost patent protection in major european markets in february 2010. the company expects significant declines in sales of these products after such times. in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for singulair expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2012 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for the company major marketed products is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. key company products generate a significant amount of the company profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company key products, such as singulair , remicade , vytorin, zetia, januvia, nasonex and gardasil . as a result of the company dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection (as in the recent case of temodar ), increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or otc availability of the company product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. the company research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. 23 table of contents like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. declines in sales of products, such as fosamax, cozaar and hyzaar, after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the fda for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products, such as fosamax, cozaar and hyzaar, lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in connection with the merger, the company is assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential compounds for development. the company has completed the prioritization of its clinical development programs. the company is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. the company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be completed by the first half of 2010. in connection with this process, the company may recognize non-cash impairment charges for the cancellation of certain legacy schering-plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the merger. these non-cash impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from the company non-gaap earnings, could be material to the company future gaap earnings. 24 table of contents the company products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the ec. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to mandate product withdrawals. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 3. legal proceedings patent litigation below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications ( anda ) with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies u.s. patents, potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in an impairment charge. the company results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. 25 table of contents the company hypertension products cozaar and hyzaar will each lose patent protection in the united states in april 2010. in addition, the patent for cozaar will expire in a number of major european markets in march 2010. hyzaar lost patent protection in major european markets in february 2010. the company expects significant declines in the sales of these products after such times. in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for singulair expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2012 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. the company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or the eu. in the united states, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company products can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from new products. the company products face intense competition from competitors products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors products may be safer or more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than the company products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 (the 2003 act ). the 2003 act included a prescription drug benefit for individuals that first went into effect on january 1, 2006. the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries could result in further pricing pressures. outside the united states, numerous major markets have pervasive government involvement in funding healthcare and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the healthcare industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the healthcare industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the healthcare system are considered by congress and state legislatures. recently, major health care reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of congress. a final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. congress may 26 table of contents also choose not to take action on comprehensive reform and instead move to consider more incremental health care proposals that may or may not involve pharmaceutical-related issues. some of the proposals included in the house and senate versions of health reform could adversely affect the company sales and profit margins. if enacted, these proposals could call for government intervention in pharmaceutical pricing, changes in government reimbursement, or increased rebates and discounts on sales related to state and federal government programs among other changes. other proposals that might be enacted that would adversely affect our business include legalization of commercial drug importation into the united states, and involuntary approval of medicines for otc use. in addition, individual states have enacted or proposed regulations that restrict certain sales and marketing activities and/or require tracking and disclosure of payments and other financial support to healthcare professionals. similar regulations may be proposed at the federal level. such regulations could adversely affect the company sales and profit margins. any of these new legislative initiatives, if enacted, may further increase government regulation of or other government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the operating environment for healthcare companies. government regulations applicable to the company current or future products, or the interpretation of existing regulations, might change and thereby prevent the company from marketing some or all of its products and services for a period of time or indefinitely. the company cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes in the healthcare industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company results of operations, financial condition or business. the company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, old merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. these issues are continuing, in particular, with respect to the manufacture of bulk varicella which is required for production of the company varicella zoster virus-containing vaccines, such as varivax, proquad and zostavax . similarly, schering-plough has, in the past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain of its animal health products. the company is working on these issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues will be finally resolved. in addition to the difficulties that the company is experiencing currently, the company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. the company faces significant litigation related to vioxx. on september 30, 2004, old merck voluntarily withdrew vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. although old merck has settled the major portion of the u.s. product liability litigation, the company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of vioxx . in addition to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought against old merck and several current and former officers and directors of the company alleging that old merck made false and misleading statements regarding vioxx in violation of the federal and state securities laws (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx securities lawsuits ). on april 12, 2007, judge chesler granted defendants motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice. plaintiffs appealed judge chesler decision to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit. on september 9, 2008, the third circuit issued an opinion reversing judge chesler order and remanding the case to the district court. old merck filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the united states supreme court, which was granted. oral argument was held in the supreme court on november 30, 2009 and a decision is expected in the first half of 2010. while old merck 27 table of contents petition for certiorari was pending, plaintiffs filed their consolidated and fifth amended class action complaint in the district court. on may 1, 2009, defendants moved to dismiss the fiffth amended class action complaint; that motion has been withdrawn without prejudice to refile it pending the outcome in the supreme court. in addition, various putative class actions have been brought against old merck and several current and former employees, officers, and directors of the company alleging violations of erisa. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx erisa lawsuits and, together with the vioxx securities lawsuits the vioxx shareholder lawsuits . the vioxx shareholder lawsuits are discussed more fully in item 3. legal proceedings below.) old merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the united states. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx foreign lawsuits .) old merck has also been sued by ten states, five counties and new york city with respect to the marketing of vioxx. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) has issued subpoenas requesting information relating to old merck research, marketing and selling activities with respect to vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. this investigation includes subpoenas for witnesses to appear before a grand jury. there are also ongoing investigations by local authorities in europe. the company is cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations. (all of these investigations are referred to as the vioxx investigations .) the company cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal remedies. the vioxx product liability litigation is discussed more fully in item 3. legal proceedings below. a trial in a representative action in australia concluded on june 25, 2009, in the federal court of australia. the named plaintiff, who alleges he suffered an mi, seeks to represent others in australia who ingested vioxx and suffered an mi, thrombotic stroke, unstable angina, transient ischemic attack or peripheral vascular disease. the trial judge has reserved decision in this matter. the company currently anticipates that two u.s. vioxx product liability lawsuits will be tried in 2010. the company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the vioxx litigation. the company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, vioxx shareholder lawsuits and vioxx foreign lawsuits (collectively, the vioxx lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against them. the company insurance coverage with respect to the vioxx lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses. during 2009, merck spent approximately $244 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the vioxx lawsuits, and (ii) the vioxx investigations (collectively, the vioxx litigation ). in 2009, merck recorded charges of $75 million, including $35 million in the fourth quarter, to add to the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to the vioxx litigation which was $279 million at december 31, 2008 and $110 million (the vioxx reserve ) at december 31, 2009. the amount of the vioxx reserve is based on certain assumptions, described below under item 3. legal proceedings , and is the best estimate of the minimum amount that the company believes will be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the vioxx litigation, however, events such as additional trials in the vioxx litigation and other events that could arise in the course of the vioxx litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the company. the company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the vioxx lawsuits or vioxx investigations. these proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek unspecified damages, the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the vioxx lawsuits not included in the settlement program. other than a reserve established in connection with the settlement of the shareholder derivative actions discussed below under item 3. legal proceedings , the company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the vioxx lawsuits not included in the settlement program or the vioxx investigations. a series of unfavorable outcomes in the vioxx lawsuits or the vioxx investigations, resulting in the payment of substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. 28 table of contents issues concerning vytorin and the enhance and seas clinical trials have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia in the united states and results from ongoing trials could have an adverse effect on such sales. the company sells vytorin and zetia. as previously disclosed, in january 2008, the legacy companies announced the results of the enhance clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of ldl bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. as previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( vytorin ) significantly lowered ldl bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. the improve-it trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. no incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. in january 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of enhance. the fda stated that the results from enhance did not change its position that elevated ldl cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering ldl cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. for a discussion concerning litigation arising out of the enhance study, see item 3. legal proceedings below. as previously disclosed, the legacy companies have received several letters addressed to both companies from the house committee on energy and commerce, its subcommittee on oversight and investigations ( o i ), and the ranking minority member of the senate finance committee, collectively seeking a combination of witness interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues related to the enhance clinical trial, the sale and promotion of vytorin , as well as sales of stock by corporate officers. in addition, the legacy companies received three additional letters from o i, seeking certain information and documents related to the seas clinical trial, which is described in more detail below. the legacy companies also each received subpoenas from the new york and new jersey state attorneys general offices and a letter from the connecticut attorney general seeking similar information and documents. finally, in september 2008, the legacy companies received a letter from the civil division of the doj informing it that the doj is investigating whether the companies conduct relating to the promotion of vytorin caused false claims to be submitted to federal health care programs. the company is cooperating with these investigations. as previously disclosed, a number of shareholder lawsuits arising out of the enhance study have been brought against old merck and schering-plough. in july 2008, efficacy and safety results from the seas study were announced. seas was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with vytorin 10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin therapy. vytorin failed to meet its primary endpoint for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. in the study, patients in the group who took vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than the group who took placebo. there was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group who took vytorin versus those who took placebo. cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ systems. the company believes the cancer finding in seas is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the available data, does not support an association with vytorin . in august 2008, the fda announced that it was investigating the results from the seas trial. in december 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the data from the seas trial as well as a review of interim data from the sharp and improve-it trials. based on currently available information, the fda indicated it believed it is unlikely that vytorin or zetia increase the risk of cancer-related death. the sharp trial is expected to be completed in 2010. the improve-it trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. in the improve-it trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by the data safety monitoring board for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. that interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010. if, based on the results of the interim analysis, the trial were to be halted because of concerns related to vytorin , that could have a material adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia . similarly, as noted above, the sharp trial is expected to be completed in 2010. negative results from the sharp trial could also have an adverse affect on the sales of vytorin and zetia. 29 table of contents following the announcements of the enhance and seas clinical trial results, sales of vytorin and zetia declined in 2008 and 2009 in the united states. these issues concerning the enhance and seas clinical trials have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia and could continue to have an adverse effect on such sales. if sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. in addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. an arbitration proceeding commenced by centocor against schering-plough may result in the company loss of the rights to market remicade and simponi. a subsidiary of the company is a party to a distribution agreement with centocor, now a wholly owned subsidiary of johnson johnson, under which the schering-plough subsidiary has rights to distribute and commercialize the rheumatoid arthritis treatment remicade and simponi , a next-generation treatment, in certain territories. under section 8.2(c) of the distribution agreement, if either party is acquired by a third party or otherwise comes under control (as defined in section 1.4 [of the distribution agreement]) of a third party, it will promptly notify the other party not subject to such change of control. the party not subject to such change of control will have the right, however not later than thirty (30) days from such notification, to notify in writing the party subject to the change of control of the termination of the agreement taking effect immediately. as used herein change of control shall mean (i) any merger, reorganization, consolidation or combination in which a party to this agreement is not the surviving corporation; or (ii) any person (within the meaning of section 13(d) and section 14(d)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934), excluding a party affiliates, is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the party representing more than fifty percent (50%) of either (a) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the party or (b) the combined voting power of the party then-outstanding voting securities; or (iii) if individuals who as of the effective date [april 3, 1998] constitute the board of directors of the party (the incumbent board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of the party; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the effective date whose election, or nomination for election by the party shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the incumbent board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the incumbent board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the board; or (iv) approval by the shareholders of a party of a complete liquidation or the complete dissolution of such party. section 1.4 of the distribution agreement defines control to mean the ability of any entity (the controlling entity), directly or indirectly, through ownership of securities, by agreement or by any other method, to direct the manner in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding voting rights of any other entity (the controlled entity), whether or not represented by securities, shall be cast, or the right to receive over fifty percent (50%) of the profits or earnings of, or to otherwise control the management decisions of, such other entity (also a controlled entity). on may 27, 2009, centocor delivered to schering-plough a notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether, as a result of the proposed merger, centocor is permitted to terminate the distribution agreement and related agreements. as part of the arbitration process, centocor will take the position that it has the right to terminate the distribution agreement on the grounds that, in the merger, schering-plough and the schering-plough subsidiary party to the distribution agreement were (i) acquired by a third party or otherwise come[ing] under control (as defined in section 1.4) of a third party and/or (ii) undergoing a change of control (as defined in section 8.2(c)). a hearing in the arbitration is scheduled to commence in late september 2010. sales of remicade and simponi included in the company results for the post-merger period were $430.7 million and $3.9 million, respectively. sales of remicade recognized by schering-plough in 2009 prior to the merger were $1.9 billion. the company is vigorously contesting centocor attempt to terminate the distribution agreement as a result of the merger. however, if the arbitrator were to conclude that centocor is permitted to terminate the distribution agreement as a result of the merger and centocor in fact terminates the distribution agreement, the 30 table of contents company subsidiary would not be able to distribute remicade or simponi . in addition, in the arbitration, centocor is claiming damages, in an amount to be determined , that result from merck alleged non-termination of the distribution agreement. if centocor were to prevail in the arbitration, merck could be liable for the net damages, including any offsets or mitigation, that the arbitration panel finds centocor incurred as a result of non-termination and the company would suffer an impairment charge. an unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, liquidity and results of operations. finally, due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the arbitration, the parties may choose to settle the dispute under mutually agreeable terms but any agreement reached with centocor to resolve the dispute under the distribution agreement may result in the terms of the distribution agreement being modified in a manner that may reduce the benefits of the distribution agreement to the company. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company business. all aspects of the company business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company business. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, the company currently is proceeding with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource planning system, which includes modification to the design, operation and documentation of its internal controls over financial reporting, and intends to implement the resource planning system in the united states in 2010. any material problems in the implementation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials, may decrease demand for the company products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. 31 table of contents in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the european medicines agency ( emea ) and the pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability claims for its products. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and european states within the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the emea and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing 32 table of contents procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. there currently is no process in the united states for the submission or approval of generic biologics based upon abbreviated data packages or a showing of sameness to another approved biologic, but there is public dialogue at the fda and in congress regarding the scientific and statutory basis upon which such products, known as biosimilars or follow-on biologics, could be approved and marketed in the united states. the company cannot be certain when congress will create a statutory pathway for the approval of biosimilars, and the company cannot predict what impact, if any, the approval of biosimilars would have on the sales of company products in the united states. in europe, however, the emea has issued guidelines for approving biological products through an abbreviated pathway, and biosimilars have been approved in europe. if a biosimilar version of one of the company products were approved in europe, it could have a negative effect on sales of the product. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company tax liabilities, and the company tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in february 2010, president obama administration proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated 33 table of contents foreign-source income and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. we cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. in addition, the company may be impacted by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. the company may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the merger, which could adversely affect the value of the company common stock. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the company ability to successfully combine the businesses of old merck and schering-plough and realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two companies. if the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the value of the company common stock may be adversely affected. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each legacy company ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger include, among other things: integrating the research and development, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information technology systems of old merck and schering-plough; conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company. integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. an inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the company business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of company common stock. in addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual cost and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than the company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if the company is not able to adequately address these challenges, it may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two legacy companies. delays encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition of the company. although the company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, to result from the merger, there can be no assurance that the company will realize any of these anticipated benefits. the company will incur significant transaction and merger-related transition costs in connection with the merger. the company will incur significant costs in connection with consummating the merger and integrating the operations of the two companies, with a significant portion of such costs being incurred through the first year after completion of the merger. the company continues to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of the two legacy companies. although the company believes that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, no assurance can be given that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. 34 table of contents the company debt obligations incurred to finance the merger could adversely affect its business. while the company financing strategy for the merger was focused on preserving financial strength and flexibility to continue to invest in the company business and key growth drivers post-merger, debt obligations incurred to finance the merger could affect the company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates, thereby placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness. further, if the company decides to retire or pay down indebtedness early it may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to do so, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and mergers and acquisitions. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company results of operations. the extent of the company operations outside the united states will be significant due to the fact that the majority of schering-plough legacy operations are outside the united states. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. as discussed below, the venezuelan economy was recently determined to be hyperinflationary which requires the company to remeasure its local currency operations there to u.s. dollars which remeasurement will be recorded in the first quarter of 2010. in addition, the venezuelan government recently devalued its currency. these actions will have an adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, there may be changes to the company business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report, including the annual report, and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product 35 table of contents potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement thereof affecting the company business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant litigation related to vioxx , and vytorin and zetia . the arbitration proceeding involving the company right to distribute remicade and simponi . legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 107 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 107 table of contentsrisk factors 23 cautionary factors that may affect future results 36 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. competition the markets in which the company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. the company competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. the company operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors branded products, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic competition as the company products mature. in addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. an adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. the effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. with its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. the company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. however, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. for example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the company products in that therapeutic category. 10 global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. in 2010, this pressure was particularly intense in several european countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. in the united states, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. for example, federal laws require the company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain public health service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). under the federal vaccines for children entitlement program, the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of medicaid-eligible, uninsured, native american and certain underinsured children. merck was awarded a cdc contract in 2010 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the vaccines for children program. against this backdrop, the united states enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010. various insurance market reforms began last year and will continue through full implementation in 2014. the new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million americans by the end of the decade that did not previously have regular access to health care. with respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340b drug discount program. the law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount on medicare part d utilization by beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, beginning in 2011, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual health care reform fee. the total annual industry fee, which will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as medicare and medicaid. although not included in the health care reform law, congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the government role in pharmaceutical pricing in the medicare program. these proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the secretary of the health and human services intervening in price negotiations between medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. they may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in medicare drug benefit plans. in addition, congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. the full impact of u.s. health care reform, as well as continuing budget pressures on governments around the world, cannot be predicted at this time. in addressing cost containment pressures, the company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. the company works in markets with historically low rates of government spending on health care to encourage those governments to increase their investments and thereby improve their citizens access to appropriate health care, including medicines. in the animal health business, there is intense competition which is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the company products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. the company consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. the company competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the company products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands. operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation, and cost containment efforts. although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the company business, the company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. 11 government regulation the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products. of particular importance is the fda in the united states, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. u.s. health care reform legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in the mandated rebate under the medicaid program and a new discount requirement in the medicare part d program. the eu has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. these provide mandatory standards throughout the eu, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the eu member states. the company policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the company business. in january 2008, the ec launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of eu competition law. a sector inquiry allows the ec to gather information about the general operation of market competition and is not an investigation into suspected anti-competitive behavior of specific firms. as part of this inquiry, old merck offices in germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in january 2008. the preliminary report of the ec was issued in november 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in july 2009. the final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed to these phenomena. among other things, the final report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes between originator and generic companies and suggested that the ec should monitor any anti-competitive effects. while the ec has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, including to the company, the ec has not alleged that the company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. the company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs into the market, in this regulatory environment. access to medicines as a global health care company, merck primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. the company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. the company efforts in this regard are wide-ranging. for example, the company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into consideration such factors as a country level of economic development and public health need. building on the company own efforts, merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the world. for example, in 2010, through a partnership of merck, the government of bhutan, and the australian cervical cancer foundation, bhutan became the first low-income country in the world to successfully implement a national hpv vaccination program. under this program, merck is providing gardasil free of charge for the first year of the program and will provide gardasil at the company access price for five more years. also in 2010, merck worked with its partner, the wellcome trust, to further develop the hillemann laboratories which was established in september 2009. this initiative will focus on developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly affect low-income countries. 12 merck has also in the past provided funds to the merck company foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. one of these partnerships is the african comprehensive hiv/aids partnership in botswana, a collaboration with the government of botswana and the bill melinda gates foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports botswana response to hiv/aids through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to hiv prevention, care, treatment, and support. privacy and data protection the company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the united states and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. distribution the company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. the company professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the company pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices, hospitals and managed care organizations. the company sells its animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. the company over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the united states and canada. raw materials raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the company business. patents, trademarks and licenses patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents may cover products per se , pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. the protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. the food and drug administration modernization act (the fda modernization act ) includes a pediatric exclusivity provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the united states for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. these exclusivity provisions were re-authorized by the prescription drug user fee act passed in september 2007. current u.s. patent law provides additional patent term under patent term restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review before the fda. 13 patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the company normally provide market exclusivity. the company has the following key u.s. patent protection (including patent term restoration and pediatric exclusivity) for major marketed products: product year of expiration (in u.s.) (1) crixivan 2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation) maxalt (2) 2012 singulair 2012 cancidas 2013 (compound)/2015 (composition) propecia (3) 2013 (formulation/use) asmanex 2014 (use)/2018 (formulation) avelox (4) 2014 dulera 2014 (use)/2020 (combination) integrilin 2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation) nasonex 2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation) temodar (5) 2014 emend 2015 follistim aq 2015 pegintron 2015 (conjugates)/2020 (mature ifn-alpha) zolinza 2015 (with pending patent term restoration) invanz 2016 (compound)/2017 (composition) zostavax 2016 (use) zetia/vytorin (6) 2017 nuvaring 2018 (delivery system) noxafil 2019 rotateq 2019 clarinex (7 ) 2020 (formulation) comvax 2020 (method of making/vectors) intron a 2020 recombivax 2020 (method of making/vectors) saphris/sycrest 2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending patent term restoration application) januvia/janumet 2022 (compound)/2026 (salt) isentress 2023 gardasil 2026 (method of making/use/product by process) (1) compound patent unless otherwise noted. (2) the company has determined that it will not enforce an additional patent that was set to expire in 2014. (3) by agreement, dr. reddy laboratories, inc. may launch a generic in the u.s. on january 1, 2013. (4) by settlement, teva pharmaceuticals, inc. may launch a generic in the u.s. as early as february 2014. six months pediatric market exclusivity may extend this date to august 2014. (5) by agreement, barr laboratories, inc. may launch a generic in the u.s. on august 11, 2013. (6) by agreement, glenmark pharmaceuticals, inc. may launch a generic in the u.s. on december 12, 2016. (7) by virtue of litigation settlement, generic manufacturers have been given the right to enter the u.s. market as of 2012. while the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the united states and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. the effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the 14 requirements of new drug provisions of the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. the patents that provided u.s. market exclusivity for cozaar and hyzaar expired in april 2010. in addition, cozaar and hyzaar lost patent protection in a number of major european markets in march 2010. accordingly, the company is experiencing a significant decline in cozaar/hyzaar worldwide sales and the company expects such decline to continue. in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for singulair , the company largest selling product, expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2012 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter (although the six month pediatric market exclusivity may extend this date in some markets to february 2013). the compound patent that provides market exclusivity for maxalt in the united states expires in june 2012 (although the six month pediatric market exclusivity may extend this date to december 2012). in addition, the patent for maxalt will expire in a number of major european markets in 2013. the company anticipates that sales in the united states and in these european markets will decline significantly after these patent expiries. additions to market exclusivity are sought in the united states and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the united states and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties. for further information with respect to the company patents, see item 1a. risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2010 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $347 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.38 billion in 2010 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 15,500 people are employed in the company research activities. research and development expenses were $11.0 billion in 2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and $4.8 billion in 2008 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $2.4 billion of ipr d impairment charges in 2010). the company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. another important component of the company science-based diversification is based on expanding the company portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and rnai. further, merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through its merck bioventures division which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries 15 by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. the company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. the integration efforts for research and development continue to focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the company late-stage pipeline. overall, the company global operating model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. additionally, across all disease area priorities, the company strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the company early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late-stage clinical success. the company clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and women health. the company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the nda for a drug or the biologics license application ( bla ) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase i studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase ii studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound usefulness. if data from the phase ii trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase iii trials to confirm the compound efficacy and safety. upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase i clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase ii studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase iii trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda is submitted and received by the fda. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act, the fda review period targets for ndas or supplemental ndas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. within 60 days after receipt of an nda, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. once the review timelines are defined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major 16 amendment has been submitted (either at the company own initiative or the fda request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than 180 days. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter. research and development update the company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis c virus protease inhibitor currently under development. full data results for two pivotal late-stage studies for boceprevir were presented in november 2010 at the annual meeting of the american association for the study of liver disease which showed that boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic hepatitis c virus genotype 1 compared to control, the primary objective of the studies. based on these data, regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010 and have been accepted for expedited review in both the united states and the eu. mk-0431a xr, the company investigational extended-release formulation of janumet , was accepted for standard review by the fda in 2010. the company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the united states. the extended-release formulation of janumet is an investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active component of januvia , with metformin extended release, a commonly-prescribed medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. this formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for health care providers and patients who need two or more oral agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of once daily dosing. sch 900121, nomac/e2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is identical to the one naturally present in a women body. the drug is currently under review in the eu. it is also in phase iii development for the u.s. market. mk-3009, cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under review in japan. as previously disclosed, in 2007, cubist pharmaceuticals, inc. ( cubist ) entered into a license agreement with old merck for the development and commercialization of cubicin, for the treatment of staph infection, in japan where the company has the commercial rights to the drug candidate. merck will develop and commercialize cubicin through its wholly-owned subsidiary in japan. cubist commercializes cubicin in the united states. mk-0431d is a combination of januvia and zocor for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted for standard review by the fda in 2011. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has 19 drug candidates in phase iii development. vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. merck was studying vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events: tracer, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which has ended, and tra-2p (also known as timi 50), a study in patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery disease which is continuing in large part. both studies were designed as event-driven trials in which patients were planned to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed enrollment. in january 2011, merck announced that the combined data and safety monitoring board ( dsmb ) for the two studies had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and made recommendations for study changes to the chairpersons of the steering committees for the two studies. the study chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a result: in the tracer study, patients were to discontinue study drug and investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly fashion. in the tra-2p study, study drug was continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry into the study or during the course of the study. merck subsequently announced that the chairman of the tra-2p study reported to investigators that the dsmb had communicated that based on all 17 of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke not receive vorapaxar. the dsmb had observed an increase in intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential benefit. merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for vorapaxar once the company has received the efficacy and safety data from tracer and can determine an updated completion date for tra-2p. tracer has accumulated the pre-defined number of primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients will continue to receive study drug through the pre-specified one-year follow up. merck continues to expect that the efficacy and safety data from tracer will become available later in 2011 and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical meetings. as a result of these developments, the company concluded there was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar intangible asset. although there is a great deal of information related to these developments that remains unknown to the company, utilizing market participant assumptions and considering several different scenarios, the company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million, which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. the company will continue to monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment. mk-8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mtor (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. ( ariad ). in january 2011, ariad announced top-line data showing that ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of improved progression-free survival compared to placebo in the phase iii succeed trial conducted in patients with metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a favorable response to chemotherapy. complete findings from the succeed trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming medical meeting in 2011. this trial remains active, and study participants continue to be followed to gather additional data on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the safety profile of ridaforolimus. merck currently plans to file an nda with the fda for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to final collection and analysis of all available data from the trial. mk-2452, saflutan (tafluprost), is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin f2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. in april 2009, old merck and santen pharmaceutical co., ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda with the fda for saflutan in 2011. as previously disclosed, old merck submitted for filing an nda with the fda for mk-0653c, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the fda refused to file the application in 2009. the fda has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed; the company anticipates filing an nda in 2011. as previously disclosed, in 2009, old merck announced it was delaying the filing of the u.s. application for mk-0974, telcagepant, the company investigational calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp )-receptor antagonist for the acute treatment of migraine. the decision was based on findings from a phase iia exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. the daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in phase iii studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, merck is conducting an additional safety study as part of the overall phase iii program for telcagepant. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda with the fda in 2011. sch 900616, bridion (sugammadex), is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. bridion has received regulatory approval in the eu, australia, new zealand, japan and a number of other markets. prior to the merger, schering-plough received a complete response letter from the fda for bridion. following 18 further communication from the fda, the company is assessing the agency feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. sch 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet ( ait ) for grass pollen allergy for which the company has north american rights. in march 2010, data from a phase iii study in children and adolescents (ages 5-17 years) with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at the american academy of allergy, asthma immunology annual meeting. allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in children and adolescents. ait is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. merck is investigating ait for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. the anticipated u.s. filing date for sch 697243 is under assessment. sch 039641, an ait for ragweed allergy, is also in phase iii development for the north american market. the anticipated filing date for sch 039641 is under assessment. sch 418131, zenhale , is a fixed dose combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. in november 2010, the company advised the european medicines agency ( ema ) that it was withdrawing the application for marketing authorization for zenhale , which has been approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and older in the united states as dulera inhalation aerosol. the company decided to withdraw the application for zenhale to address questions outstanding between the company and the committee for medicinal products for human use of the ema. the company expects to resubmit the application in the future. mk-0431c, a candidate currently in phase iii clinical development, combines januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. the company expects it will file an nda for mk-0431c with the fda in 2012. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. four-year data on odanacatib were presented in october 2010 at the american society for bone and mineral research annual meeting. clinical and preclinical studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength when treating osteoporosis. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda with the fda in 2012. v503 is a nine-valent hpv vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer-causing hpv types. the phase iii clinical program is underway and merck anticipates filing a bla with the fda in 2012. mk-0524a is a drug candidate that combines extended-release niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. mk-0524a has demonstrated the ability to lower ldl-cholesterol ( ldl-c or bad cholesterol), raise hdl-cholesterol ( hdl-c or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. high ldl-c, low hdl-c and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. in april 2008, old merck received a non-approvable action letter from the fda in response to its nda for mk-0524a. at a meeting to discuss the letter, the fda stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that old merck wait for the results of the treatment of hdl to reduce the incidence of vascular events ( hps2-thrive ) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. the company anticipates filing an nda with the fda for mk-0524a in 2012. mk-0524a has been approved in more than 55 countries outside the united states for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of ldl-c and triglycerides and low hdl-c) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as tredaptive (or as cordaptive in certain countries). tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. 19 mk-0524b is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising hdl-c and lowering triglycerides from extended-release niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. merck will not seek approval for mk-0524b in the united states until it files its complete response relating to mk-0524a. mk-4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in phase iii development. in june 2010, clinical results from a phase iib study were presented at the annual meeting of the associated professional sleep societies which showed mk-4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end of week four in patients with primary insomnia. mk-4305 was generally well-tolerated in the study. orexins are neuropeptides (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be an important regulator of the brain sleep-wake process. phase iii trials studying the efficacy and safety of mk-4305 in elderly and non-elderly insomnia patients are ongoing. merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for mk-4305 in 2012. sch 900962, elonva , corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the eu for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a gnrh antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in phase iii development in the united states. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda with the fda in 2012. sch 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in phase iii development for treatment of parkinson disease. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda with the fda beyond 2012. v212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in phase iii development for prevention of herpes zoster. the company anticipates filing an nda with the fda beyond 2012. mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( cetp ) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise hdl-c and reduce ldl-c. in november 2010, researchers presented results from the phase iii define (determining the efficacy and tolerability of cetp inhibition with anacetrapib) study with anacetrapib at the american heart association scientific sessions. in the trial of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease ( chd ) or chd risk equivalents, anacetrapib showed no significant differences from placebo in the primary safety measures studied. there were no significant differences in mean changes in blood pressure between the anacetrapib and placebo treatment groups, nor were there any significant differences in serum electrolytes or aldosterone levels. during the 76-week treatment phase, the pre-specified adjudicated cardiovascular endpoint (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina or stroke) occurred in 16 anacetrapib-treated patients (2.0%) compared with 21 placebo-treated patients (2.6%). at 24 weeks, anacetrapib decreased ldl-c by 40% and increased hdl-c by 138% in patients already treated with a statin and at guideline-recommended ldl-c goal. based on these results, the company intends to move forward and study anacetrapib in a large cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial. the company anticipates filing an nda with the fda beyond 2015. 20 the chart below reflects the company current research pipeline as of february 16, 2011. candidates shown in phase iii include specific products. candidates shown in phase ii include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number or sch-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. candidates in phase i, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase ii allergy sch 900237, immunotherapy (1) cancer mk-0646 (dalotuzumab) sch 727965 (dinaciclib) clostridium difficile infection mk-3415a contraception, medicated ius sch 900342 copd sch 527123 (navarixin) diabetes mellitus mk-3102 hepatitis c mk-7009 (vaniprevir) insomnia mk-3697 mk-6096 osteoporosis mk-5442 pediatric vaccine v419 pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 progeria sch 066336 (lonafarnib) psoriasis sch 900222 staph infection v710 thrombosis mk-4448 (betrixaban) phase iii allergy sch 697243, grass pollen (1) sch 039641, ragweed (1) asthma sch 418131 ( zenhale ) (eu) atherosclerosis mk-0524a (extended-release niacin/ laropiprant) (u.s.) mk-0524b (extended-release niacin/ laropiprant/simvastatin) mk-0859 (anacetrapib) cervical cancer v503 (hpv vaccine (9 valent)) contraception sch 900121 (nomac/e2) (u.s.) diabetes mk-0431c (sitagliptin/pioglitazone) fertility sch 900962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (u.s.) glaucoma mk-2452 ( saflutan ) (u.s.) insomnia mk-4305 (suvorexant) migraine mk-0974 (telcagepant) neuromuscular blockade reversal sch 900616 ( bridion ) (u.s.) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) parkinson disease sch 420814 (preladenant) sarcoma mk-8669 (ridaforolimus) thrombosis sch 530348 (vorapaxar) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) combination products in development atherosclerosis mk-0653c (ezetimibe/atorvastatin) under review contraception sch 900121 (nomac/e2) (eu) staph infection mk-3009 (daptomycin for injection) (2) diabetes mk-0431a xr (sitagliptin/ extended-release metformin) (u.s.) mk-0431d (sitagliptin/simvastatin) hepatitis c sch 503034 (boceprevir) footnotes: (1) north american rights only. (2) japanese rights only. employees as of december 31, 2010, the company had approximately 94,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 37,600 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 30% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. in february 2010, the company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the merger restructuring program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy merck and legacy schering-plough businesses. this merger restructuring program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. additional actions under the program continued during 2010. as part of the restructuring actions taken thus far 21 under the merger restructuring program, which the company anticipates will be substantially completed by the end of 2012 (with the exception of certain manufacturing facilities actions), the company expects to reduce its total workforce measured at the time of the merger by approximately 17% across the company worldwide. in addition, the company has eliminated over 2,500 positions which were vacant at the time of the merger. these workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. since inception of the program through december 31, 2010, the company has eliminated 11,550 positions under this program. these position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. in october 2008, old merck announced a global restructuring program (the 2008 restructuring program ) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. as part of the 2008 restructuring program, the company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies across the company worldwide by the end of 2011. about 40% of these reductions will occur in the united states. since inception of the program through december 31, 2010, the company has eliminated 5,800 positions, including vacancies, under this program. prior to the merger, schering-plough commenced a productivity transformation program, which was designed to reduce and avoid costs and increase productivity. the position eliminations associated with this program are largely complete. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16 million in 2010, $17 million in 2009 and $35 million in 2008, and are estimated at $81 million for the years 2011 through 2015. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $185 million at december 31, 2010. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $150 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states were 56% of sales in 2010, 47% of sales in 2009 and 44% of sales in 2008. the increase in proportion of sales outside the united states in 2010 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of schering-plough following the close of the merger. the company worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. 22 as a result of the merger, merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company business is discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors six standing committees are available on the company website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. certain of the company major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future and, when that occurs, the company expects a significant decline in sales of those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. as product patents for several of the company products have recently expired in the united states and in other countries, the company faces strong competition from lower priced generic drugs. loss of patent protection for one of the company products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for singulair, which is the company largest selling product and had u.s. sales of approximately $3.2 billion in 2010, expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2012 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter (although the six month pediatric market exclusivity may extend this date in some markets to february 2013). in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for maxalt will expire in june 2012 (although the six month pediatric market exclusivity may extend this date to december 2012). the company expects a significant decline in u.s. sales thereafter. in addition, as previously disclosed, in 2012, astrazeneca has the right to exercise its options to acquire the company interest in nexium and prilosec and the company believes that it is likely that astrazeneca will exercise its right. a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for the company major marketed products is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. 23 the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications ( anda ) with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. patent litigation and other challenges to the company patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies u.s. patents, potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain legacy schering-plough or msp partnership products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for the company largest selling product, singulair, expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2012 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter (although the six month pediatric market exclusivity may extend this date in some markets to february 2013). key company products generate a significant amount of the company profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company key products, such as singulair , remicade , vytorin, zetia, januvia, nasonex, isentress, and temodar . as a result of the company dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. if any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain legacy schering-plough or msp partnership products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. 24 the company research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. declines in sales of products, such as cozaar , hyzaar and fosamax, after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, and accordingly the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the fda for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products, such as cozaar, hyzaar and singular in 2012 , lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in connection with the merger, the company assessed and prioritized its pipeline to identify the most promising, high-potential compounds for development. in the future, if certain legacy schering-plough pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the merger. these non-cash impairment charges, which the company anticipates 25 would be excluded from the company non-gaap earnings, could be material to the company future gaap earnings. for example, as discussed below, the company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $1.7 billion in 2010 with respect to vorapaxar, which is a legacy schering-plough pipeline program. the company products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to mandate product withdrawals. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. the company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or the eu. in the united states, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company products can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company products face intense competition from competitors products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors products may be safer or more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than the company products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if legacy schering-plough products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the merger, such as saphris, or former msp partnership products, vytorin or zetia , experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. these non-cash impairment charges, which the company anticipates would be excluded from the company non-gaap earnings, could be material to the company future gaap earnings. 26 the current uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by governments in europe could negatively affect the company operating results. the current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company products or by reducing the demand for the company products, which could in turn negatively impact the company sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. while many of the company brands experienced positive growth trends in the eu during 2010, the environment in the eu and across europe is now more challenging. many countries have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. the implementation of pricing actions varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. while the company is taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the eu, it is possible that the austerity measures could negatively affect the company revenue performance in 2011 and beyond more than the company anticipates. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the patient protection and affordable care act. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. outside the united states, numerous major markets have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, major health care reform was adopted into law in the united states. important market reforms began last year and will continue through full implementation in 2014. the new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million americans by the end of the decade. in 2010, merck incurred additional costs as a result of the new law, including increased medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. in 2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the medicaid program increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the company branded prescription drugs; the medicaid rebate was extended to medicaid managed care organizations; and eligibility for the federal 340b drug discount program was extended to rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain additional children hospitals. beginning in 2011, the law requires drug manufacturers to pay a 50% discount on medicare part d utilization incurred by beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, beginning in 2011, the company will incur an annual health care reform fee, which is being assessed on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. the fee will be calculated based on the industry total sales of branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. the percentage of a manufacturer sales that are included is determined by a tiered scale based on the manufacturer individual revenues. each 27 manufacturer portion of the total annual fee (the fee for 2011 is $2.5 billion) will be based on the manufacturer proportion of the total includable sales in the prior year. the company cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company results of operations, financial condition or business. the company is experiencing difficulties and delays in the manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, old merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. these issues are continuing, in particular, with respect to the manufacture of the company varicella zoster virus-containing vaccines, such as varivax, proquad and zostavax . similarly, the company has, in the past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain of its animal health products and is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain women health products. the company is working on these issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues will be finally resolved. in addition to the difficulties that the company is experiencing currently, the company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. the company faces significant litigation related to vioxx. on september 30, 2004, old merck voluntarily withdrew vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. although old merck has settled the major portion of the u.s. product liability litigation, the company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of vioxx . in addition to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought against old merck and several current and former officers and directors of old merck alleging that old merck made false and misleading statements regarding vioxx in violation of the federal and state securities laws (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx securities lawsuits ). the vioxx securities lawsuits have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation (the jpml ) to the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey before district judge stanley r. chesler for inclusion in a nationwide mdl (the shareholder mdl ), and have been consolidated for all purposes. on june 18, 2010, old merck moved to dismiss the fifth amended class action complaint in the consolidated securities class action. plaintiffs filed their opposition on august 9, 2010, and old merck filed its reply on september 17, 2010. the motion is currently pending before the district court. in addition, several individual securities lawsuits filed by foreign institutional investors also are consolidated with the vioxx securities lawsuits; by stipulation, defendants are not required to respond to these complaints until the resolution of any motions to dismiss in the consolidated securities class action. in addition, various putative class actions have been brought against old merck and several current and former employees, officers, and directors of the company alleging violations of erisa. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx erisa lawsuits and, together with the vioxx securities lawsuits the vioxx shareholder lawsuits . the vioxx shareholder lawsuits are discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below.) old merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the united states. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx foreign lawsuits .) old merck has also been sued by 12 states, one county and a private citizen as a qui tam lawsuit with respect to the marketing of vioxx. the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) has issued subpoenas requesting information relating to old merck research, marketing and selling activities with respect to vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. this investigation includes subpoenas for witnesses to appear before a grand jury. as previously disclosed, in march 2009, old merck received a letter from the u.s. attorney office for the district of 28 massachusetts identifying it as a target of the grand jury investigation regarding vioxx . in 2010, the company established a $950 million reserve (the vioxx liability reserve ) in connection with the anticipated resolution of the doj investigation. the company discussions with the government are ongoing. until they are concluded, there can be no certainty about a definitive resolution. there are also ongoing investigations by local authorities in europe. the company is cooperating with authorities in all of these investigations. (all of these investigations, including the doj investigation, are referred to as the vioxx investigations .) the company cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations; however, they could result in potential civil and/or criminal remedies. the vioxx product liability litigation is discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. the company currently anticipates that three u.s. vioxx product liability lawsuits will be tried in 2011. the company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the vioxx litigation. the company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, vioxx shareholder lawsuits and vioxx foreign lawsuits (collectively, the vioxx lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against them. the company insurance coverage with respect to the vioxx lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses. during 2010, merck spent approximately $140 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the vioxx lawsuits, and (ii) the vioxx investigations (collectively, the vioxx litigation ). in 2010, merck recorded charges of $106 million to add to the reserve solely for its future legal defense costs related to the vioxx litigation, which was $110 million at december 31, 2009 and $76 million at december 31, 2010 (the vioxx legal defense costs reserve ). the amount of the vioxx legal defense costs reserve is based on certain assumptions, described below under item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities, and is the best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs that the company believes will be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the vioxx litigation, however, events such as additional trials in the vioxx litigation and other events that could arise in the course of the vioxx litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the company. in addition, as mentioned above, in 2010 the company established the vioxx liability reserve in connection with the anticipated resolution of the doj investigation. the company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the vioxx lawsuits or vioxx investigations. these proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek unspecified damages, the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the vioxx lawsuits not included in the settlement program. other than the vioxx liability reserve, the company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the vioxx lawsuits not included in the settlement program or the vioxx investigations. a series of unfavorable outcomes in the vioxx lawsuits or the vioxx investigations, resulting in the payment of substantial damages or fines or resulting in criminal penalties, could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. issues concerning vytorin and the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia in the united states and results from ongoing trials could have an adverse effect on such sales. the company sells vytorin and zetia. as previously disclosed, in january 2008, the legacy companies announced the results of the enhance clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of ldl bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. as previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( vytorin ) significantly lowered ldl bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. the improve-it trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. no incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. 29 in january 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of enhance. the fda stated that the results from enhance did not change its position that elevated ldl cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering ldl cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. for a discussion concerning shareholder litigation arising out of the enhance study, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. the improve-it trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. in the improve-it trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was conducted by the dsmb for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints were accrued. the dsmb recommended continuing the trial with no changes in the study protocol. another blinded interim efficacy analysis is planned by the dsmb when approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. if, based on the results of the interim analysis, the trial were to be halted because of concerns related to vytorin , that could have a material adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia . following the announcements of the enhance clinical trial results, sales of vytorin and zetia declined in 2008, 2009 and 2010 in the united states. these issues concerning the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia and could continue to have an adverse effect on such sales. if sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. in addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the litigation concerning the sale and promotion of these products could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. an arbitration proceeding commenced by centocor against schering-plough may result in the company loss of the rights to market remicade and simponi. a subsidiary of the company is a party to a distribution agreement with centocor, a wholly owned subsidiary of johnson johnson, under which the schering-plough subsidiary has rights to distribute and commercialize the rheumatoid arthritis treatment remicade and simponi , a next-generation treatment, in certain territories. under section 8.2(c) of the distribution agreement, if either party is acquired by a third party or otherwise comes under control (as defined in section 1.4 [of the distribution agreement]) of a third party, it will promptly notify the other party not subject to such change of control. the party not subject to such change of control will have the right, however not later than thirty (30) days from such notification, to notify in writing the party subject to the change of control of the termination of the agreement taking effect immediately. as used herein change of control shall mean (i) any merger, reorganization, consolidation or combination in which a party to this agreement is not the surviving corporation; or (ii) any person (within the meaning of section 13(d) and section 14(d)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934), excluding a party affiliates, is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the party representing more than fifty percent (50%) of either (a) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the party or (b) the combined voting power of the party then-outstanding voting securities; or (iii) if individuals who as of the effective date [april 3, 1998] constitute the board of directors of the party (the incumbent board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of the party; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the effective date whose election, or nomination for election by the party shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the incumbent board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the incumbent board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the board; or (iv) approval by the shareholders of a party of a complete liquidation or the complete dissolution of such party. section 1.4 of the distribution agreement defines control to mean the ability of any entity (the controlling entity), directly or indirectly, through ownership of securities, by agreement or by any other method, to direct the manner in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding voting rights of any other entity (the controlled entity), whether or not represented by securities, shall be cast, or the right to receive over fifty percent (50%) of the profits or earnings of, or to otherwise control the management decisions of, such other entity (also a controlled entity). 30 on may 27, 2009, centocor delivered to schering-plough a notice initiating an arbitration proceeding to resolve whether, as a result of the then proposed merger, centocor is permitted to terminate the distribution agreement and related agreements. as part of the arbitration process, centocor has taken the position that it has the right to terminate the distribution agreement on the grounds that, in the merger, schering-plough and the schering-plough subsidiary party to the distribution agreement were (i) acquired by a third party or otherwise come[ing] under control (as defined in section 1.4) of a third party and/or (ii) undergoing a change of control (as defined in section 8.2(c)). the company is vigorously contesting centocor attempt to terminate the distribution agreement as a result of the merger. a hearing in the arbitration was completed in late december 2010. if the arbitration panel were to conclude that centocor is permitted to terminate the distribution agreement as a result of the merger and centocor in fact terminates the distribution agreement, the company subsidiary would not be able to distribute remicade or simponi . in addition, in the arbitration, centocor is claiming damages, in an amount to be determined , that result from merck alleged non-termination of the distribution agreement. if centocor were to prevail in the arbitration, merck could be liable for the net damages, including any offsets or mitigation, that the arbitration panel finds centocor incurred as a result of non-termination. sales of remicade and simponi in 2010 were $2.7 billion and $97 million, respectively. an unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, liquidity and results of operations. in addition, the company would be required to record a material, non-cash impairment charge with respect to the termination of those marketing rights. finally, due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the arbitration, the parties may choose to settle the dispute under mutually agreeable terms but any agreement reached with centocor to resolve the dispute under the distribution agreement may result in the terms of the distribution agreement being modified in a manner that may reduce the benefits of the distribution agreement to the company. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company business. all aspects of the company business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company business. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, the company currently is proceeding with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource planning system, which was implemented in the united states in 2010 and which includes modification to the design, operation and documentation of its internal controls over financial reporting. the company intends to implement the resource planning system in major european markets and canada in 2011. any material problems in the implementation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. 31 developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials, may decrease demand for the company products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials have led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and the pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability claims for its products. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( bse ) or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. the company is working with sanofi-aventis to create an animal health joint venture. as previously disclosed, the company has agreed to create an animal health joint venture with sanofi-aventis. under the agreement, both companies will contribute their respective animal health businesses to the new 32 equally-owned joint venture. the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2011. once the animal health joint venture is established, there will be a period of integration during which the animal health business could suffer. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each company ongoing animal health business or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the joint venture ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors or other parties. disruption from the integration process could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture business which is expected to be an important contributor to the company business and results of operations. the formation of the animal health joint venture is expected to be dilutive to the company earnings for the first 12 months after the transaction closes. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and european states within the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. 33 since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company tax liabilities, and the company tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in february 2010, president obama administration proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. we cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. in addition, the company may be impacted by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. the company may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the merger, which could adversely affect the value of the company common stock. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the company ability to successfully combine the businesses of old merck and schering-plough and realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two companies. if the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the value of the company common stock may be adversely affected. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of each legacy company ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger include, among other things: integrating the research and development, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information technology systems of old merck and schering-plough; conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company. integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the 34 integration process, could have an adverse effect on the company business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of company common stock. in addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual cost and sales synergies may be lower than the company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if the company is not able to adequately address these challenges, it may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two legacy companies. delays encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition of the company. although the company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, to result from the merger, there can be no assurance that the company will realize all of these anticipated benefits. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its presence in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and we cannot offset the devaluations, the company financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to continue to expand the company business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company operations. the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company results of operations. the extent of the company operations outside the united states are significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. 35 as discussed below, in 2010 the company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in venezuela to u.s. dollars as the venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. also, in january and again in december 2010, the venezuelan government devalued its currency. these actions have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on the company results of operations, financial position and cash flows. furthermore, the company believes the credit and economic conditions within greece, spain, italy and portugal, among other members of the eu, have deteriorated during 2010. these conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries. as of december 31, 2010, the company accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal totaled approximately $1.4 billion of which hospital and public sector receivables in greece were approximately 15%. during 2010, the greek government announced it would exchange zero coupon bonds for outstanding 2007-2009 accounts receivable related to certain government sponsored institutions. in addition, there may be changes to the company business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report, including the annual report, and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. 36 changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement thereof affecting the company business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant litigation related to vioxx , and vytorin and zetia . the arbitration proceeding involving the company right to distribute remicade and simponi . legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 88 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 88risk factors 21 cautionary factors that may affect future results 33 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2011 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $367 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2011 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. research and development the company business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 14,100 people are employed in the company research activities. research and development expenses were $8.5 billion in 2011, $11.1 billion in 2010, and $5.8 billion in 2009 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $587 million and $2.4 billion of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2011 and 2010, respectively). the company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. another important component of the company science-based diversification is based on expanding the company portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and rnai. further, merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through its merck bioventures division, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. the company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. the company clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women health. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the nda for a drug or the biologics license application ( bla ) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase i studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase ii studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse 14 table of contents effects that could limit the compound usefulness. if data from the phase ii trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase iii trials to confirm the compound efficacy and safety. upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase i clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase ii studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase iii trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda is submitted and received by the fda. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act, the fda review period targets for ndas or supplemental ndas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. within 60 days after receipt of an nda, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. once the review timelines are defined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company own initiative or the fda request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter, or by issuing a complete response letter stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a complete response letter, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. research and development update the company currently has two candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. mk-8669, ridaforolimus, is an investigational oral mtor (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor under development for the treatment of metastatic soft-tissue or bone sarcomas in patients who had a favorable response to chemotherapy that was accepted for standard review by the fda in september 2011. in august 2011, the european medicines agency ( ema ) accepted the marketing authorization application for ridaforolimus. as part of an exclusive license agreement with ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. ( ariad ), merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ariad has an option to co-promote ridaforolimus for sarcoma in the united states subject to execution of a co-promotion agreement. mk-0653c, zetia combined with atorvastatin was accepted for standard review by the fda for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia. in response to notice of the company filing, pfizer inc. ( pfizer ) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in u.s. district court against the company asserting certain pfizer patent rights in respect of atorvastatin. this lawsuit has the potential to bar fda approval of the company nda for up to 30 months (until january 6, 2014) subject to being shortened or lengthened by a court decision, or shortened by an agreement between the parties. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has 19 drug candidates in phase iii development targeting a broad range of diseases. the company plans to file five major products for approval between 2012 and 2013, including: suvorexant (insomnia), bridion (reversal of neuromuscular blockade), v503 (cervical cancer vaccine), odanacatib (osteoporosis) and tredaptive (atherosclerosis). mk-4305, suvorexant, is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of insomnia. orexins are neuropeptides (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized 15 table of contents neurons in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be an important regulator of the brain sleep-wake process. in february 2012, merck announced that based on the positive results of two pivotal phase iii efficacy trials for suvorexant, the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-4305 with the fda in 2012. mk-8616, bridion , is a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery. bridion is currently approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the united states. prior to the merger, schering-plough received a not-approvable letter from the fda for bridion . the company has conducted additional clinical trials to address the fda comments and plans to file an nda for bridion with the fda in 2012. v503 is a nine-valent hpv vaccine in development to help protect against certain hpv-related diseases. v503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing hpv types as compared with gardasil . the phase iii clinical program, which includes an event-driven clinical trial, is ongoing and merck continues to anticipate filing a bla for v503 with the fda in 2012. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. odanacatib continues to be studied to determine its safety and potential effects on hip, vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in an event-driven phase iii clinical trial. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-0822 with the fda in 2013. mk-0524a is a drug candidate that combines extended-release niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. mk-0524a has demonstrated the ability to lower ldl-cholesterol ( ldl-c or bad cholesterol), raise hdl-cholesterol ( hdl-c or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended-release niacin alone. high ldl-c, low hdl-c and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. in april 2008, merck received a not-approvable letter from the fda in response to its nda for mk-0524a. at a meeting to discuss the letter, the fda stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that merck wait for the results of the hps2-thrive (treatment of hdl to reduce the incidence of vascular events) event-driven cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. the company anticipates filing an nda with the fda for mk-0524a in 2013. mk-0524a has been approved in more than 60 countries outside the united states for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of ldl-c and triglycerides and low hdl-c) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and is marketed as tredaptive (or as cordaptive in certain countries). tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. mk-8962, elonva , corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the eu for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a gnrh antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in phase iii development in the united states. based on feedback from the fda, additional data from an ongoing phase iii trial will be required at the time of filing. merck now anticipates filing an nda for elonva with the fda in 2013. mk-6621, vernakalant i.v., is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation which is being marketed as brinavess in the eu. merck acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize vernakalant i.v., as well as exclusive worldwide rights to oral formulations of vernakalant. prior to merck acquisition of the rights to vernakalant i.v. in canada, mexico and the united states, the program was placed on clinical hold by the fda and the phase iii, act v trial was suspended in 2010. act v has now been terminated. in the united states, the program remains on hold. the company plans to have further discussions with the fda. mk-8175a, nomac/e2, which is being marketed as zoely in the eu, is an oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. nomac/e2 is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective, progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta 16 table of contents estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one naturally present in a women body. in november 2011, merck received a complete response letter from the fda for nomac/e2. the company is planning to conduct an additional clinical study requested by the fda and update the application in the future. mk-5348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist being developed for the prevention of thrombosis, or clot formation, and the reduction of cardiovascular events. vorapaxar has been evaluated in two major clinical outcomes studies in different patient groups: tracer (thrombin receptor antagonist for clinical event reduction in acute coronary syndrome), a clinical outcomes trial in patients with acute coronary syndrome, and tra-2p (thrombin receptor antagonist in secondary prevention of atherothrombotic ischemic events), a secondary prevention study in patients with a previous heart attack or ischemic stroke, or with documented peripheral vascular disease. in february 2012, merck announced the top-line results of the tra-2p study. tra-2p showed that the addition of vorapaxar to standard of care significantly reduced the risk of the protocol-specified primary endpoint of the composite of cardiovascular death, heart attack (myocardial infarction), stroke or urgent coronary revascularization compared to standard of care. there was a significant increase in bleeding, including intracranial hemorrhage, among patients taking vorapaxar in addition to standard of care, although there was a lower risk of intracranial hemorrhage in patients without a history of stroke. the full results of tra-2p will be presented at the american college of cardiology scientific sessions in march 2012. in november 2011, researchers presented results from the tracer outcomes study at the american heart association scientific sessions, and the results have been published. tracer did not achieve its primary endpoint. in january 2011, merck and the external study investigators announced that the combined data and safety monitoring board ( dsmb ) for the two clinical trials had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data and recommended that patients in the tracer trial discontinue study drug and investigators close out the study. merck will review the data from both tra-2p and tracer with the investigators and other outside experts to help better understand the profile of this investigational medicine in specific patient populations and to determine next steps, including potential regulatory filings. mk-0524b is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising hdl-c and lowering triglycerides from extended-release niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. merck anticipates filing an nda for mk-0524b with the fda in 2014. mk-7243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet ( ait ) in phase iii development for grass pollen allergy for which the company has north american rights. ait is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. merck is investigating ait for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-7243 with the fda in 2013. mk-3641, an ait for ragweed allergy, is also in phase iii development for the north american market. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-3641 with the fda in 2013. mk-3814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in phase iii development for treatment of parkinson disease. the company anticipates filing an nda for preladenant with the fda in 2014. mk-3415a, an investigational candidate for the treatment of clostridium difficile infection, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-3415a with the fda in 2014. v212 is an inactivated varicella-zoster virus vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company is enrolling two phase iii trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. the company anticipates filing a bla first with the autologous hematopoietic cell transplant data in 2014 and filing for the second indication in cancer patients at a later date. v419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help protect against six potentially serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough ( bordetella pertussis ), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b, and hepatitis b that is being developed in collaboration with sanofi-pasteur. the company anticipates filing a bla for v419 with the fda in 2014. 17 table of contents mk-0431e combines januvia and atorvastatin in a single tablet and is being developed for the treatment of diabetes and atherosclerosis. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-0431e with the fda in 2014. mk-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus. the drug is in phase iii trials in japan. the company anticipates filing a new drug application for mk-7009 in japan in 2014. mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( cetp ) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise hdl-c and reduce ldl-c. based on the results from the phase iii define (determining the efficacy and tolerability of cetp inhibition with anacetrapib) safety study of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk equivalents, the company initiated a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial reveal (randomized evaluation of the effects of anacetrapib through lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda for anacetrapib with the fda beyond 2015. in 2011, merck discontinued the clinical development program for telcagepant, the company investigational calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist for the treatment of acute migraine. the decision was based on an assessment of data across the clinical program. the company also discontinued the clinical development program for mk-0431c, a combination of sitagliptin and pioglitazone, for the treatment of diabetes based on a review of the regulatory and commercial prospects for the combination drug candidate. in 2012, merck discontinued the clinical development program in the eu for mk-0887a, zenhale , a fixed dose combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate, which is marketed in the united states as dulera inhalation aerosol. 18 table of contents the chart below reflects the company research pipeline as of february 21, 2012. candidates shown in phase iii include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase iii development. candidates shown in phase ii include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. candidates in phase i, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase ii phase iii (phase iii entry date) under review allergy mk-8237, immunotherapy (1) cancer mk-0646 (dalotuzumab) mk-1775 mk-2206 mk-7965 (dinaciclib) contraception, medicated ius mk-8342 diabetes mellitus mk-3102 hepatitis c mk-5172 insomnia mk-3697 mk-6096 overactive bladder mk-4618 pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 psoriasis mk-3222 allergy mk-7243, grass pollen (1) (march 2008) mk-3641, ragweed (1) (september 2009) atherosclerosis mk-0524a (extended-release niacin/laropiprant) (u.s.) (december 2005) mk-0524b (extended-release niacin/laropiprant/ simvastatin) (july 2007) mk-0859 (anacetrapib) (may 2008) atrial fibrillation mk-6621 (vernakalant i.v.) (u.s.) (august 2003) (2) clostridium difficile infection mk-3415a (november 2011) contraception mk-8175a (nomac/e2) (4) (u.s.) (june 2006) diabetes and atherosclerosis mk-0431e (sitagliptin/atorvastatin) (october 2011) fertility mk-8962 (corifollitropin alfa for injection) (u.s.) (july 2006) hepatitis c mk-7009 (vaniprevir) (3) (june 2011) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) hpv-related cancers v503 (hpv vaccine (9 valent)) (september 2008) insomnia mk-4305 (suvorexant) (december 2009) neuromuscular blockade reversal mk-8616 ( bridion ) (u.s.) (november 2005) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) (september 2007) parkinson disease mk-3814 (preladenant) (july 2010) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (april 2011) thrombosis mk-5348 (vorapaxar) (september 2007) atherosclerosis mk-0653c (ezetimibe/atorvastatin) (u.s.) sarcoma mk-8669 (ridaforolimus) (u.s.) (eu) footnotes: (1) north american rights only. (2 ) prior to merck acquisition of rights to vernakalant i.v. in canada, mexico and the united states, the program was placed on clinical hold by the fda in 2010. the suspended phase iii trial, act v has now been terminated. the program remains on hold in the united states. the company plans to have further discussions with the fda. (3) for development in japan only. (4) in november 2011, merck received a complete response letter from the fda for nomac/e2 (mk-8175a). the company is planning to conduct an additional clinical study requested by the fda and update the application in the future. employees as of december 31, 2011, the company had approximately 86,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 33,100 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 31% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. in february 2010, the company commenced actions under the merger restructuring program in conjunction with the integration of the legacy merck and legacy schering-plough businesses. this merger restructuring program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. additional actions under the program continued during 2010. in july 2011, the company announced the latest phase of the merger restructuring program during which the company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the 19 table of contents merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the company worldwide. a majority of the workforce reductions in this phase of the merger restructuring program relate to manufacturing (including animal health), administrative and headquarters organizations. previously announced workforce reductions of approximately 17% in earlier phases of the program primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. since inception of the merger restructuring program through december 31, 2011, merck has eliminated approximately 18,430 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and more than 2,500 positions that were vacant at the time of the merger. in october 2008, merck announced a global restructuring program (the 2008 restructuring program ) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. as part of the 2008 restructuring program, the company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies across the company worldwide. since inception of the 2008 restructuring program through december 31, 2011, merck has eliminated approximately 6,250 positions comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. prior to the merger, schering-plough commenced a productivity transformation program, which was designed to reduce and avoid costs and increase productivity. the position eliminations associated with this program are largely complete. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $25 million in 2011, $16 million in 2010 and $17 million in 2009, and are estimated at $93 million in the aggregate for the years 2012 through 2016. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $171 million at december 31, 2011. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $133 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states were 57% of sales in 2011, 56% of sales in 2010 and 47% of sales in 2009. the increase in proportion of sales outside the united states in 2010 was primarily due to the inclusion of results of schering-plough following the close of the merger. the company worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. 20 table of contents financial information about geographic areas of the company business is discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors six standing committees are available on the company website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. certain of the company major products are going to lose patent protection in the near future, including singulair in 2012, and, when that occurs, the company expects a significant decline in sales of those products. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. as product patents for several of the company products have recently expired in the united states and in other countries, the company faces strong competition from lower priced generic drugs. loss of patent protection for one of the company products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for singulair, which is the company largest selling product with u.s. sales of approximately $3.5 billion in 2011, expires in august 2012. the company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all u.s. sales of singulair , with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. also, the patent that provides market exclusivity for singulair will expire in a number of major european markets in february 2013 and the company expects sales of singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. in addition, the patent that provides u.s. market exclusivity for maxalt will expire in december 2012. also, the patent that provides market exclusivity for maxalt will expire in a number of major european markets in february 2013. the company anticipates that sales in the united states, which were approximately $450 million in 2011, and in these european markets will decline significantly after these patent expiries. in addition, as previously disclosed, in 2012, astrazeneca has the right to exercise its option to acquire the company interest in a subsidiary and, through it, the company interest in nexium and prilosec and the company believes that it is likely that astrazeneca will exercise its option. a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for the company major marketed products is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering 21 table of contents products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for the company business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. a trial relating to the company u.s. patent for nasonex is expected to take place in 2012. patent litigation and other challenges to the company patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies u.s. patents, potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. key company products generate a significant amount of the company profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company key products, such as singulair , januvia , remicade , zetia, vytorin, janumet, isentress, nasonex, gardasil, and temodar . as a result of the company dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. if any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products, such as singulair and maxalt, after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through 22 table of contents license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the fda for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products, such as singular and maxalt in 2012 , lose patent protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the merger. these non-cash impairment charges, which the company anticipates would be excluded from the company non-gaap earnings, could be material to the company future gaap earnings. for example, the company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $1.7 billion in 2010 with respect to vorapaxar, which is a legacy schering-plough pipeline program. the company products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in 23 table of contents many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower-cost generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent 24 table of contents protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company products can arise at any time, and it may not be able to prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company products face intense competition from competitors products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors products may be safer or more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than the company products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if legacy schering-plough products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the merger, such as saphris, or former merck/schering plough partnership products, vytorin or zetia , experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. these non-cash impairment charges, which the company anticipates would be excluded from the company non-gaap earnings, could be material to the company future gaap earnings. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the patient protection and affordable care act. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, the company faces the risk of litigation with the government over its pricing calculations. outside the united states, numerous major markets have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, major health care reform was adopted into law in the united states. important market reforms have begun and will continue through full implementation in 2014. the new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million americans by the end of the decade. in 2011, merck incurred additional costs as a result of the new law, including increased medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. in 2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the medicaid program 25 table of contents increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the company branded prescription drugs; the medicaid rebate was extended to medicaid managed care organizations; and eligibility for the federal 340b drug discount program was extended to rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain additional children hospitals. in addition, the law requires drug manufacturers to pay a 50% discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). also, beginning in 2011, the company is now required to pay an annual health care reform fee, which is being assessed on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. the fee is calculated based on the industry total sales of branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. the percentage of a manufacturer sales that are included is determined by a tiered scale based on the manufacturer individual revenues. each manufacturer portion of the total annual fee is based on the manufacturer proportion of the total includable sales in the prior year. the annual industry fee for 2011 was $2.5 billion and the annual industry fee for 2012 is $2.8 billion. the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company results of operations, financial condition or business. the current uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company operating results. the current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company products or by reducing the demand for the company products, which could in turn negatively impact the company sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. while many of the company brands experienced positive growth trends in the eu during 2011, the environment in the eu and across europe continues to be challenging. many countries have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. the implementation of pricing actions varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. while the company is taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the eu, the austerity measures negatively affected the company revenue performance in 2011 and the company anticipates mid-single digit pricing pressures in 2012 across europe. furthermore, these european austerity measures could negatively affect the company revenue performance in 2012 more than the company anticipates. lastly, in 2012, the company will be subject to biennial price reductions in japan. furthermore, the company believes the credit and economic conditions within greece, spain, italy and portugal, among other members of the eu, have deteriorated during 2011 and may continue to deteriorate in 2012. these conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries and may also impact the likelihood of collecting 100% of outstanding accounts receivable. as of december 31, 2011, the company accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal totaled approximately $1.6 billion. of this amount, hospital and public sector receivables were approximately $1.1 billion in the aggregate, of which approximately 8%, 36%, 47% and 9% related to greece, italy, spain and portugal, respectively. as of december 31, 2011, the company total accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year were approximately $400 million, of which approximately 90% related to accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal, mostly comprised of hospital and public sector receivables. if the conditions in europe worsen and one or more countries in the euro zone exits the euro zone and reintroduces its legacy currency, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company results. 26 table of contents the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company results of operations. the extent of the company operations outside the united states are significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. similarly, the company has, in the past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain of its animal health products and is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain women health products. the company is working on its manufacturing issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues will be finally resolved. in addition to the difficulties that the company is experiencing currently, the company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. the company faces significant litigation related to vioxx. on september 30, 2004, merck voluntarily withdrew vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. although merck has settled the major portion of the u.s. product liability litigation, the company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of vioxx . in addition to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought against merck and several current and former officers and directors of merck alleging that merck made false and misleading statements regarding vioxx in violation of the federal securities laws and state laws (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx securities lawsuits ). the vioxx securities lawsuits have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation (the jpml ) to the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey before district judge stanley r. chesler for inclusion in a nationwide mdl (the shareholder mdl ), and have been consolidated for all purposes. the vioxx securities lawsuits are discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the united states. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx foreign lawsuits .) merck has also been sued by a number of states, one county and a private citizen as a qui tam lawsuit with respect to the marketing of vioxx. 27 table of contents as previously disclosed, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) issued subpoenas requesting information relating to merck research, marketing and selling activities with respect to vioxx in a federal health care investigation under criminal statutes. in 2010, the company established a $950 million reserve (the vioxx liability reserve ) in connection with the anticipated resolution of the doj investigation. on november 22, 2011, the company announced that it had reached a resolution with federal and state authorities regarding this matter, pending court approval. under civil settlement agreements signed with the united states and individually with 44 states and the district of columbia, merck will pay approximately two-thirds of the reserved charge to resolve civil allegations related to vioxx . as a result, the united states and the participating states have released merck from civil liability related to the governments allegations regarding the sale and promotion of vioxx . the company also has agreed to plead guilty to one count of misdemeanor misbranding of vioxx under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act by promoting the drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis prior to the fda approval of that indication in april 2002. the company will pay a fine of approximately one-third of the reserved amount to the federal government as part of the plea agreement. with regard to the non-participating states, merck continues to face lawsuits filed by those states. on december 16, 2011, the united states district court for the district of massachusetts conducted a hearing with regard to the resolution. during that hearing, the parties advised the court as to the nature of the resolution and the core documents comprising the resolution. the court scheduled a subsequent hearing for march 2012, during which the court may issue a ruling concerning whether it accepts merck plea and the resolution. the vioxx litigation is discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. a trial in the missouri state court action is scheduled to begin on may 12, 2012. the company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the vioxx litigation. the company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, vioxx securities lawsuits and vioxx foreign lawsuits (collectively, the vioxx lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against them. the company insurance coverage with respect to the vioxx lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses. the company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the vioxx lawsuits. these proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek unspecified damages, the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the remaining vioxx lawsuits. the company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the remaining vioxx lawsuits other than the vioxx liability reserve and a reserve related to the settlement of the canadian vioxx litigation discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. a series of unfavorable outcomes in the vioxx lawsuits resulting in the payment of substantial damages could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. issues concerning vytorin and the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia in the united states and results from ongoing trials could have an adverse effect on such sales. the company sells vytorin and zetia. as previously disclosed, in january 2008, the legacy companies announced the results of the enhance clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of ldl bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. as previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( vytorin ) significantly lowered ldl bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. the improve-it trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. no incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on 28 table of contents cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. in january 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of enhance. the fda stated that the results from enhance did not change its position that elevated ldl cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering ldl cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. for a discussion concerning shareholder litigation arising out of the enhance study, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 12. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. the improve-it trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. in the improve-it trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was conducted by the dsmb for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints were accrued. the dsmb recommended continuing the trial with no changes in the study protocol. another blinded interim efficacy analysis is planned by the dsmb in the first quarter of 2012 when approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. if, based on the results of the interim analysis, the trial were to be halted because of concerns related to vytorin , that could have a material adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia . these issues concerning the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia and could continue to have an adverse effect on such sales. if the results of the improve-it trial fail to demonstrate an incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin, sales of zetia and vytorin could be materially adversely affected. if sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected and the company could be required to record a material non-cash impairment charge. in addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the shareholder litigation concerning the enhance clinical trial results could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company may fail to realize all of the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the merger, which could adversely affect the value of the company common stock. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the company ability to successfully combine the businesses of merck and schering-plough and realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the combination of the two companies. if the combined company is not able to achieve all of these objectives within the anticipated time frame, the value of the company common stock may be adversely affected. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of the company ongoing business or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of the two legacy companies in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger include, among other things: integrating the research and development, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information technology systems of merck and schering-plough; conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company. integration efforts between the two companies have and will continue to divert management attention and resources. the company integration efforts involve plans to close or sell certain facilities worldwide. implementation of any such plans is subject to satisfaction of local legal requirements including, but not limited to, compliance with relevant information and consultation obligations, where applicable. these processes may result in delays or the failure of the company to realize all of its anticipated synergies. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the company business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of company common stock. 29 table of contents in addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, such as new information technology systems, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual cost and sales synergies may be lower than the company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if the company is not able to adequately address these challenges, it may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two legacy companies. delays encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition of the company. although the company expects significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, to result from the merger, there can be no assurance that the company will realize all of these anticipated benefits. the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its presence in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and we cannot offset the devaluations, the company financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to continue to expand the company business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company tax liabilities, and the company tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in february 2011, president obama administration re-proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on excess returns attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income 30 table of contents and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. other potentially significant changes to the u.s. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system, have been set out by various congressional committees. the company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. in addition, the company may be impacted by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company business. all aspects of the company business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company business. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, the company currently is proceeding with a multi-year implementation of an enterprise wide resource planning system, which for certain operations in the united states began in 2010 and will be further implemented for u.s. operations in 2012 and includes modification to the design, operation and documentation of its internal controls over financial reporting. the company implemented the resource planning system in major european markets and canada in 2011 and intends to implement it in additional markets in 2012. any material problems in the implementation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely impacted by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, 31 table of contents weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and european countries within the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. 32 table of contents cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company products lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant litigation related to vioxx , and vytorin and zetia . legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. 33 table of contents changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 82 table of contentsrisk factors 21 cautionary factors that may affect future results 31 risk factors and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. worldwide, all of the company important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. royalty income in 2012 on patent and know-how licenses and other rights amounted to $352 million. merck also incurred royalty expenses amounting to $1.3 billion in 2012 under patent and know-how licenses it holds. 13 table of contents research and development the company business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. approximately 13,600 people are employed in the company research activities. research and development expenses were $8.2 billion in 2012, $8.5 billion in 2011, and $11.1 billion in 2010 (which included restructuring costs in all years, as well as $200 million, $587 million and $2.4 billion of in-process research and development impairment charges in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). the company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products. the company maintains a number of long-term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. the company research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the company research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best-in-class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its approved medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. another important component of the company science-based diversification is based on expanding the company portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and rnai. further, merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through biosimilars, which have the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow-on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. the company supplements its internal research with a licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late-stage compounds, as well as new technologies. the company clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, neurodegenerative diseases, osteoporosis, respiratory diseases and women health. in the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the united states and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the united states, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the nda for a drug or the bla for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the fda for the required approval. once the company scientists discover a new small molecule compound or biologics molecule that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the company commences preclinical testing with that compound. preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology, immunogenicity and toxicology. pending acceptable preclinical data, the company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. the clinical testing begins with phase i studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. if favorable, additional, larger phase ii studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compound usefulness. in some situations, the clinical program incorporates adaptive design methodology to use accumulating data to decide how to modify aspects of the ongoing clinical study as it continues, without undermining the validity and integrity of the trial. one type of adaptive clinical trial is an adaptive phase iia/iib trial design, a two-stage trial design consisting of a phase iia proof-of-concept stage and a phase iib dose-optimization finding stage. if data from the phase ii trials are satisfactory, the company commences large-scale phase iii trials to confirm the compound efficacy and safety. upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. there can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. preclinical testing focuses on the vaccine safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). pre-marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. initial phase i clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate 14 table of contents the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. phase ii studies are dose-ranging studies. finally, phase iii trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. if successful, the company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre-approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. in the united states, the fda review process begins once a complete nda or bla is submitted, received and accepted for review by the agency. within 60 days after receipt, the fda determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. the fda also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. pursuant to the prescription drug user fee act v, the fda review period target for ndas or original blas is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review, from the time the application is deemed sufficiently complete. once the review timelines are determined, the fda will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the company own initiative or the fda request) to the pending application. if this occurs, the fda may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than three months. extensions to the review period are communicated to the company. the fda can act on an application either by issuing an approval letter, or by issuing a complete response letter stating that the application will not be approved in its present form and describing all deficiencies that the fda has identified. should the company wish to pursue an application after receiving a complete response letter, it can resubmit the application with information that addresses the questions or issues identified by the fda in order to support approval. resubmissions are subject to review period targets, which vary depending on the underlying submission type and the content of the resubmission. the primary method the company uses to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products in the eu is through the centralized procedure. this procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and products. a company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a marketing authorization application ( maa ) with the european medicines agency ( ema ). after the ema evaluates the maa, it provides a recommendation to the ec and the ec then approves or denies the maa. it is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the eu through a mutual recognition procedure, in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. research and development update the company currently has four candidates under regulatory review in the united states and internationally. mk-4305, suvorexant, an investigational insomnia medicine in a new class of medicines called orexin receptor antagonists for use in patients with difficulty falling or staying asleep, is under review by the fda. suvorexant will be evaluated by the controlled substance staff of the fda during nda review. if approved by the fda, suvorexant will become available after a schedule assessment and determination has been completed by the u.s. drug enforcement administration, which routinely occurs after fda approval. the company has also submitted a new drug application for suvorexant to the health authorities in japan and is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other countries around the world. mk-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, is an investigational agent for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium (neuromuscular blocking agents) under review by the fda. neuromuscular blockade is used in anesthesiology to induce muscle relaxation during surgery. if approved, mk-8616 would be the first in a new class of medicines in the united states known as selective relaxant binding agents to be used in the surgical setting. in 2008, the fda did not approve the original nda for sugammadex sodium injection, requesting additional data related to hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions and coagulation (bleeding) events. merck submitted these requested data within the nda resubmission, which the fda deemed complete for review. the company expects the fda review to be completed in the first half of 2013. sugammadex sodium injection is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the united states where it is marketed as bridion . 15 table of contents mk-8109, vintafolide, is an investigational cancer candidate under review by the ema. as part of an exclusive license agreement with endocyte, merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of vintafolide in oncology. the ema accepted the maa filings for vintafolide and endocyte investigational companion diagnostic imaging agent, etarfolatide, for the targeted treatment of patients with folate-receptor positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. both vintafolide and etarfolatide have been granted orphan drug status by the ec. vintafolide is in phase iii development in the united states. mk-0653c is an investigational combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin for the treatment of primary or mixed hyperlipidemia under review by the fda. an updated nda for mk-0653c was deemed complete for review by the fda after merck submitted additional data in response to the fda complete response letter issued in 2012. merck expects the fda review to be completed in the first half of 2013. merck is continuing to move forward with planned filings for the ezetimibe and atorvastatin combination tablet in additional countries around the world. in addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the company has 16 drug candidates in phase iii development targeting a broad range of diseases. the company anticipates filing an nda or a bla, as applicable, with the fda with respect to several of these candidates in 2013. v503 is a nine-valent hpv vaccine in development to help protect against certain hpv-related diseases. v503 incorporates antigens against five additional cancer-causing hpv types as compared with gardasil . as previously disclosed, the 14,000-patient phase iii event-driven clinical study of v503 is ongoing. merck anticipates filing a bla for v503 with the fda in 2013. mk-8962, corifollitropin alpha injection, which is being marketed as elonva in the eu, is an investigational fertility treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation in women participating in in vitro fertilization or intracytoplasmic sperm injection currently in phase iii development in the united states. merck continues to anticipate filing an nda for mk-8962 with the fda in 2013. mk-5348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist being developed for the prevention of thrombosis, or clot formation, and the reduction of cardiovascular events. vorapaxar has been evaluated in two major clinical outcomes studies in different patient groups: tracer (thrombin receptor antagonist for clinical event reduction in acute coronary syndrome), a clinical outcomes trial in patients with acute coronary syndrome, and tra-2p (thrombin receptor antagonist in secondary prevention of atherothrombotic ischemic events), a secondary prevention study in patients with a previous heart attack or ischemic stroke, or with documented peripheral vascular disease. in march 2012, results from the tra-2p study of vorapaxar were presented at the american college of cardiology annual scientific session and published concurrently in the online edition of the new england journal of medicine. in the study, the addition of vorapaxar to standard of care (e.g. aspirin or thienopyridine or both) resulted in a significantly greater reduction in the risk of the composite of cardiovascular death, heart attack, stroke or urgent coronary revascularization. there was also a significant increase in bleeding, including intracranial hemorrhage, among patients taking vorapaxar in addition to standard of care, although the risk of intracranial hemorrhage was lower in patients without a history of stroke. in november 2011, researchers presented results from the tracer outcomes study at the american heart association scientific sessions, and the results have been published. tracer did not achieve its primary endpoint. in january 2011, merck and the external study investigators announced that the combined data safety monitoring board ( dsmb ) for the two clinical trials had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and recommended that patients in the tracer trial discontinue study drug and investigators close out the study. following a review of the clinical trial data and discussions with external experts, merck plans to file applications for vorapaxar in the united states and eu in 2013 seeking an indication for the prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with a history of heart attack and no history of transient ischemic attack or stroke. mk-7243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet ( ait ) in phase iii development for grass pollen allergy for which the company has north american rights. ait is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. merck is investigating ait for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. the company has submitted a bla for mk-7243 with the fda. 16 table of contents mk-3641, an ait for ragweed allergy, is also in phase iii development for the north american market. the company anticipates filing a bla for mk-3641 with the fda in 2013. mk-8175a, nomac/e2, which is being marketed as zoely in the eu, is an investigational oral contraceptive for use by women to prevent pregnancy. nomac/e2 is a combined oral contraceptive tablet containing a unique monophasic combination of two hormones: nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective progesterone-derived progestin, and 17-beta estradiol, an estrogen that is similar to the one naturally present in a women body. in november 2011, merck received a complete response letter from the fda for nomac/e2. the company is conducting an additional clinical study requested by the fda and plans to update the application in the future. mk-0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. osteoporosis is a disease that reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. odanacatib is a cathepsin k inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin k enzyme. cathepsin k is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. inhibition of cathepsin k is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. in july 2012, merck announced an update on the phase iii trial assessing fracture risk reduction with odanacatib. the independent data monitoring committee (the dmc ) for the study completed its first planned interim analysis for efficacy and recommended that the study be closed early due to robust efficacy and a favorable benefit-risk profile. the dmc noted that safety issues remain in certain selected areas and made recommendations with respect to following up on them. on february 1, 2013, merck announced that it had recently received and was reviewing safety and efficacy data from the phase iii trial. as a result of its review of this data, the company concluded that review of additional data from the previously planned, ongoing extension study was warranted and that filing an application for approval with the fda should be delayed. as previously announced, the company is conducting a blinded extension of the trial in approximately 8,200 women, which will provide additional safety and efficacy data. merck now anticipates that it will file applications for approval of odanacatib in 2014 with additional data from the extension trial. the company continues to believe that odanacatib will have the potential to address unmet medical needs in patients with osteoporosis. mk-3814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in phase iii development for treatment of parkinson disease. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-3814 with the fda in 2014. v212 is an inactivated vzv vaccine in development for the prevention of herpes zoster. the company is enrolling two phase iii trials, one in autologous hematopoietic cell transplant patients and the other in patients with solid tumor malignancies undergoing chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. the company anticipates filing a bla first with the autologous hematopoietic cell transplant data in 2014 and filing for the second indication in cancer patients at a later date. v419 is an investigational hexavalent pediatric combination vaccine, which contains components of current vaccines, designed to help protect against six potentially serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough ( bordetella pertussis ), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by haemophilus influenzae type b, and hepatitis b that is being developed in collaboration with sanofi-pasteur. the company anticipates filing a bla for v419 with the fda in 2014. mk-7009, vaniprevir, is an investigational, oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus for development in japan only. the company anticipates filing a new drug application for mk-7009 in japan in 2014. mk-3102 is an investigational once-weekly dpp-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. the company anticipates filing an nda for mk-3102 with the fda beyond 2014. mk-3222 is an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody candidate being investigated for the treatment of psoriasis. the company anticipates filing a bla for mk-3222 with the fda beyond 2014. mk-3415a, actoxumab/bezlotoxumab, an investigational candidate for the treatment of clostridium difficile infection, is a combination of two monoclonal antibodies used to treat patients with a single infusion. the company now anticipates filing a bla for mk-3415a with the fda in 2015. 17 table of contents mk-0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( cetp ) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise hdl-c and reduce ldl-c. based on the results from the phase iii define (determining the efficacy and tolerability of cetp inhibition with anacetrapib) safety study of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk equivalents, the company initiated a large, event-driven cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial reveal (randomized evaluation of the effects of anacetrapib through lipid-modification) involving patients with preexisting vascular disease that is predicted to be completed in 2017. the company continues to anticipate filing an nda for anacetrapib with the fda beyond 2015. mk-8931 is merck novel investigational oral &szlig;-amyloid precursor protein site-cleaving enzyme (bace) inhibitor for the treatment of alzheimer disease. in december 2012, merck announced the initiation of a phase ii/iii clinical trial (epoch) designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mk-8931 versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate alzheimer disease. mk-8669, ridaforolimus, is an investigational oral mtor (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor under development for cancer indications. in june 2012, merck announced that the fda issued a complete response letter regarding the nda for ridaforolimus as a treatment for metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcoma. the complete response letter states that the fda cannot approve the application in its present form, and that additional clinical trial(s) would need to be conducted to further assess safety and efficacy. in november 2012, merck formally notified the ema of its decision to withdraw the maa for ridaforolimus that was accepted by the ema in 2011. the company no longer plans to pursue the sarcoma indication in the united states or the eu, but will continue to support patients enrolled in ongoing clinical trials. merck remains committed to pursuing ridaforolimus in other cancer indications. as part of an exclusive license agreement with ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. ( ariad ), merck is responsible for the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus in oncology. in december 2012, merck announced the hps2-thrive study of mk-0524a, tredaptive , did not meet its primary endpoint. in the study, adding the combination of extended-release niacin and laropiprant to statin therapy did not significantly further reduce the risk of the combination of coronary deaths, non-fatal heart attacks, strokes or revascularizations compared to statin therapy. in addition, there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of some types of non-fatal serious adverse events in the group that received extended-release niacin/laropiprant compared to statin therapy. merck does not plan to seek regulatory approval for the medicine in the united states. in january 2013, based on the understanding of the preliminary data from the hps2-thrive study and in consultation with regulatory authorities, merck began taking steps to suspend the availability of tredaptive , which is approved for use in certain countries outside of the united states. the clinical development program for mk-0524b, a combination product of extended-release niacin with laropiprant and simvastatin, had previously been discontinued. in 2012, merck announced that it will return the global marketing and development rights for both the intravenous and oral formulations for vernakalant, a treatment for atrial fibrillation, to cardiome pharma corp. for business reasons. merck also decided in 2012 to discontinue the clinical development program for mk-0431e, a combination product of sitagliptin and atorvastatin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, for business reasons. 18 table of contents the chart below reflects the company research pipeline as of february 22, 2013. candidates shown in phase iii include specific products and the date such candidate entered into phase iii development. candidates shown in phase ii include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for commercialization in a given therapeutic area. small molecules and biologics are given mk-number designations and vaccine candidates are given v-number designations. candidates in phase i, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in-line products are not shown. phase ii phase iii (phase iii entry date) under review allergy mk-8237, immunotherapy (1) alzheimer disease mk-8931 (2) asthma mk-1029 bacterial infection mk-7655 cancer mk-0646 (dalotuzumab) mk-1775 mk-2206 mk-7965 (dinaciclib) (2) mk-8669 (ridaforolimus) cmv prophylaxis in transplant patients mk-8228 (letermovir) contraception, medicated ius mk-8342 contraception, next generation ring mk-8175a mk-8342b hepatitis c mk-5172 mk-8742 hiv mk-1439 insomnia mk-6096 melanoma mk-3475 migraine mk-1602 overactive bladder mk-4618 pneumoconjugate vaccine v114 rheumatoid arthritis mk-8457 allergy mk-7243, grass pollen (march 2008) (1)(3) mk-3641, ragweed (september 2009) (1) atherosclerosis mk-0859 (anacetrapib) (may 2008) clostridium difficile infection mk-3415a (actoxumab/bezlotoxumab) (november 2011) contraception mk-8175a (nomac/e2) (u.s.) (june 2006) (4) diabetes mellitus mk-3102 (september 2012) fertility mk-8962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (u.s.) (july 2006) hepatitis c mk-7009 (vaniprevir) (june 2011) (5) herpes zoster v212 (inactivated vzv vaccine) (december 2010) hpv-related cancers v503 (hpv vaccine (9 valent)) (september 2008) osteoporosis mk-0822 (odanacatib) (september 2007) parkinson disease mk-3814 (preladenant) (july 2010) pediatric hexavalent combination vaccine v419 (april 2011) platinum-resistant ovarian cancer mk-8109 (vintafolide) (u.s.) (april 2011) psoriasis mk-3222 (december 2012) thrombosis mk-5348 (vorapaxar) (september 2007) atherosclerosis mk-0653c (ezetimibe/atorvastatin) (u.s.) insomnia mk-4305 (suvorexant) (u.s.) neuromuscular blockade reversal mk-8616 (sugammadex sodium injection) (u.s.) platinum-resistant ovarian cancer mk-8109 (vintafolide) (eu) footnotes: (1) north american rights only. (2) phase ii/iii adaptive design. (3) the company has submitted a bla for mk-7243 and now awaits acceptance for review by the fda. (4) in november 2011, merck received a complete response letter from the fda for nomac/e2 (mk-8175a). the company is conducting an additional clinical study requested by the fda and plans to update the application in the future. (5) for development in japan only. employees as of december 31, 2012, the company had approximately 83,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 32,500 employed in the united states, including puerto rico. approximately 31% of worldwide employees of the company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. in 2010, the company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the merger restructuring program ) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy merck and legacy schering-plough businesses designed to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. these initial actions, which are expected to result in workforce reductions of approximately 17%, primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. in july 2011, the company initiated further actions under the merger restructuring program through which the company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the merger by an additional 12% to 13% across the company worldwide. a majority of the workforce reductions associated with these additional actions relate to manufacturing (including 19 table of contents animal health), administrative and headquarters organizations. since inception of the merger restructuring program through december 31, 2012, merck has eliminated approximately 22,400 positions comprised of employee separations, as well as the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. in october 2008, merck announced a global restructuring program (the 2008 restructuring program ) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. as part of the 2008 restructuring program, the company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies across the company worldwide. since inception of the 2008 restructuring program through december 31, 2012, merck has eliminated approximately 6,400 positions comprised of employee separations and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. environmental matters the company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the company. the company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $14 million in 2012, $25 million in 2011 and $16 million in 2010, and are estimated at $84 million in the aggregate for the years 2013 through 2017. these amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. the company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in management opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $145 million at december 31, 2012. although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $112 million in the aggregate. management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. merck believes that climate change could present risks to its business. some of the potential impacts of climate change to its business include increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to the company facilities, water limitations and disruptions to its supply chain. these potential risks are integrated into the company business planning including investment in reducing energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. the company does not believe these risks are material to its business at this time. geographic area information the company operations outside the united states are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the united states were 57% of sales in 2012, 57% of sales in 2011 and 56% of sales in 2010. the company worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. the company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. however, the company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. merck has expanded its operations in countries located in latin america, the middle east, africa, eastern europe and asia pacific. business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. financial information about geographic areas of the company business is discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data below. available information the company internet website address is www.merck.com . the company will make available, free of charge at the investors portion of its website, its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 20 table of contents 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). the company corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the board of directors four standing committees are available on the company website at www.merck.com/about/leadership and all such information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it from the company. item 1a. risk factors. investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this form 10-k, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the company securities. the risks below are not the only ones the company faces. additional risks not currently known to the company or that the company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. the company business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. this form 10-k also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. the company results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results below. singulair and maxalt lost market exclusivity in the united states in 2012, and the company is experiencing a significant decline in sales of those products. in addition, singulair and maxalt will each lose market exclusivity in the eu in 2013 and the company expects a significant decline in sales of those products in these markets. the company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. as product patents for several of the company products have recently expired in the united states and in other countries, the company faces strong competition from lower priced generic drugs. loss of patent protection for one of the company products typically leads to a rapid loss of sales for that product, as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. in the case of products that contribute significantly to the company sales, the loss of patent protection can have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the patent that provided u.s. market exclusivity for singulair, which in 2012 was the company second largest selling product globally, and which had u.s. sales of $2.2 billion, expired in august 2012. accordingly, the company experienced a significant and rapid decline in u.s. singulair sales, which declined 97% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $25 million as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. the patent that provided market exclusivity for singulair expired in a number of major european markets in february 2013 and the company expects a significant and rapid decline in sales of singulair in those markets. the patent that provided u.s. market exclusivity for maxalt expired in december 2012. also, the patent that provides market exclusivity for maxalt will expire in a number of major european markets in august 2013. the company anticipates that sales in the united states, which were approximately $491 million in 2012, and in these european markets will decline significantly as a result of these patent expiries. also, two additional company products, temodar and propecia , will lose market exclusivity in the united states in 2013 and the company anticipates that sales will decline significantly. a chart listing the u.s. patent protection for the company major marketed products is set forth above in item 1. business patents, trademarks and licenses. the company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the company marketing of human health products in the united states and in most major foreign markets. patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. the company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. even if the company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. it is important for 21 table of contents the company business to defend successfully the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. the company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or infringement and similar claims against the company. the company aggressively defends its important patents both within and outside the united states, including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. in particular, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated new drug applications with the fda seeking to market generic forms of the company products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned by the company. the company normally responds by vigorously defending its patent, including by filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. as discussed above, in 2012, a court decision found that a proposed generic product by a generic manufacturer would not infringe on the company nasonex formulation patent. if the generic manufacturer application is approved by the fda, it can enter the market in the united states with a generic version of nasonex which would adversely affect sales of nasonex . patent litigation and other challenges to the company patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the company results of operations. further, recent court decisions relating to other companies u.s. patents, potential u.s. legislation relating to patent reform, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. if one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available and, in the case of certain products, such a loss could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the company has successfully launched commercially successful replacement products. key company products generate a significant amount of the company profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material and negative impact on results of operations and cash flows. the company ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the company key products, such as januvia , remicade , zetia, vytorin, janumet, isentress, nasonex and gardasil . as a result of the company dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant impact on results of operations and cash flows. these events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the company product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. if any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of certain products, such an event could result in a material non-cash impairment charge. the company research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; in consequence, the company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that have lost patent protection. like other major pharmaceutical companies, in order to remain competitive, the company must continue to launch new products each year. expected declines in sales of products, such as singulair and maxalt, after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the company future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products which it may develop through joint ventures and products which it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. to accomplish this, the company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. there is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat diseases. as a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the company in research programs will not generate financial returns. 22 table of contents this risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. to bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. for a description of the research and development process, see item 1. business research and development above. each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals, therefore, the company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: pre-clinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the fda for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. the company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. the company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products, such as singulair and maxalt in 2012 and temodar and propecia in 2013, lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, cash flow, financial position and prospects. the company success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing; failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, and increasing uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. in the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions. the company products, including products in development, can not be marketed unless the company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. the company activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the eu. in the united states, the fda is of particular importance to the company, as it administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. in many cases, the fda requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new 23 table of contents products and bring them to market in the united states. regulation outside the united states also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, cost reduction. the fda and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. even if the company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. once obtained, the company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. the company failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the new products in that jurisdiction until approval is obtained, if ever. the company would not be able to realize revenues for those new products in any jurisdiction where it does not have approval. developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the company products. even after a product reaches market, certain developments following regulatory approval, including results in post-marketing phase iv trials or other studies, may decrease demand for the company products, including the following: the re-review of products that are already marketed; new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories; the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion. in the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. in addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. in addition, following the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the fda, the ema and japan pharmaceutical and medical device agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. there is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the united states, on advertising and promotion and, in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising. if previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the company products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. the company faces intense competition from lower cost-generic products. in general, the company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. the patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. in addition, in some countries, patent 24 table of contents protection is significantly weaker than in the united states or in the eu. in the united states and the eu, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. although it is the company policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the company products can arise at any time, and the company patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the company sales of that product. availability of generic substitutes for the company drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the company sales and, potentially, its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. the company faces intense competition from competitors products which, in addition to other factors, could in certain circumstances lead to non-cash impairment charges. the company products face intense competition from competitors products. this competition may increase as new products enter the market. in such an event, the competitors products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use or more effectively marketed and sold than the company products. alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the company products. as a result, if the company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. in addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions, such as saphris, or former merck/schering plough partnership products, vytorin or zetia , experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. the company faces pricing pressure with respect to its products. the company faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the company sales and profit margins. in the united states, these include (i) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) u.s. federal laws and regulations related to medicare and medicaid, including the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 and the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010. changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the united states, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of medicare, medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. in addition, the company faces the risk of litigation with the government over its pricing calculations. outside the united states, numerous major markets, including the eu, have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. consequently, in those markets, the company is subject to government decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. the company expects pricing pressures to increase in the future. the health care industry in the united states will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and political action. the company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by congress and state legislatures. in 2010, major health care reform was adopted into law in the united states. important market reforms have begun and will continue through full implementation in 2014. the new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million americans by the end of the decade. in 2012, merck incurred additional costs as a result of the law, including increased medicaid rebates and other impacts 25 table of contents that reduced revenues. in 2010, the minimum rebate to states participating in the medicaid program increased from 15.1% to 23.1% on the company branded prescription drugs; the medicaid rebate was extended to medicaid managed care organizations; and eligibility for the federal 340b drug discount program was extended to rural referral centers, sole community hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain free standing cancer hospitals, and certain additional children hospitals. in addition, the law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to medicare part d beneficiaries when they are in the medicare part d coverage gap (i.e., the so-called donut hole ). approximately $210 million and $150 million was recorded by merck as a reduction to revenue in 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. also, the company is required to pay an annual health care reform fee, which is assessed on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers. the fee is calculated based on the industry total sales of branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. the percentage of a manufacturer sales that are included is determined by a tiered scale based on the manufacturer individual revenues. each manufacturer portion of the total annual fee is based on the manufacturer proportion of the total includable sales in the prior year. the annual industry fee for 2012 was $2.8 billion and will be $2.8 billion in 2013. the company recorded $190 million and $162 million of costs within marketing and administrative expenses in 2012 and 2011, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. the company cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, or what impact they may have on the company results of operations, financial condition or business. the current uncertainty in global economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments could negatively affect the company operating results. the current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect the company business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the company products or by reducing the demand for the company products, which could in turn negatively impact the company sales and result in a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. in many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. in addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the company revenue performance in 2012. the company anticipates these pricing actions and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2013. the company continues to monitor the credit and economic conditions within greece, spain, italy and portugal, among other members of the eu. these economic conditions, as well as inherent variability of timing of cash receipts, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding in these countries and may also impact the likelihood of collecting 100% of outstanding accounts receivable. as of december 31, 2012, the company accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal totaled approximately $1.1 billion. of this amount, hospital and public sector receivables were approximately $800 million in the aggregate, of which approximately 18%, 37%, 36% and 9% related to greece, italy, spain and portugal, respectively. as of december 31, 2012, the company total accounts receivable outstanding for more than one year were approximately $200 million, of which approximately 70% related to accounts receivable in greece, italy, spain and portugal, mostly comprised of hospital and public sector receivables. if the conditions in europe worsen and one or more countries in the euro zone exits the euro zone and reintroduces its legacy currency, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the company results. 26 table of contents the company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on the company results of operations. the extent of the company operations outside the united states are significant. risks inherent in conducting a global business include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the company ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; foreign exchange fluctuations; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and possible nationalization and expropriation. in addition, there may be changes to the company business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. the company has experienced difficulties and delays in manufacturing of certain of its products. as previously disclosed, merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its vaccines and other products. similarly, the company has, in the past, experienced difficulties manufacturing certain of its animal health products and is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain women health products. the company is working on its manufacturing issues, but there can be no assurance of when or if these issues will be finally resolved. in addition to the difficulties that the company is experiencing currently, the company may experience difficulties and delays inherent in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the company products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. the company faces significant litigation related to vioxx. on september 30, 2004, merck voluntarily withdrew vioxx , its arthritis and acute pain medication, from the market worldwide. although merck has settled the major portion of the u.s. product liability litigation, the company still faces material litigation arising from the voluntary withdrawal of vioxx . in addition to the vioxx product liability lawsuits and lawsuits from certain states that did not participate in a previously-disclosed settlement, various purported class actions and individual lawsuits have been brought against merck and several current and former officers and directors of merck alleging that merck made false and misleading statements regarding vioxx in violation of the federal securities laws and state laws (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx securities lawsuits ). the vioxx securities lawsuits have been transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation (the jpml ) to the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey before district judge stanley r. chesler for inclusion in a nationwide mdl (the shareholder mdl ), and have been consolidated for all purposes. merck has also been named as a defendant in actions in various countries outside the united states. (all of these suits are referred to as the vioxx international lawsuits .) 27 table of contents the vioxx litigation is discussed more fully in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. the company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the vioxx product liability lawsuits, vioxx securities lawsuits and vioxx international lawsuits (collectively, the vioxx lawsuits ) and will vigorously defend against them. the company insurance coverage with respect to the vioxx lawsuits will not be adequate to cover its defense costs and any losses. the company is not currently able to estimate any additional amounts that it may be required to pay in connection with the vioxx lawsuits. these proceedings are still expected to continue for years and the company cannot predict the course the proceedings will take. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek unspecified damages, the company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the remaining vioxx lawsuits. the company has not established any material reserves for any potential liability relating to the remaining vioxx lawsuits although it has established reserves related to the settlement of the canadian vioxx litigation and with respect to certain other vioxx product liability lawsuits, including a previously-disclosed settlement relating to a lawsuit brought by a class of missouri plaintiffs, all of which are discussed in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, note 11. contingencies and environmental liabilities below. a series of unfavorable outcomes in the vioxx lawsuits resulting in the payment of substantial damages could have a material adverse effect on the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. issues concerning vytorin and the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia in the united states and results from the improve-it trial could have a material adverse effect on such sales. the company sells vytorin and zetia. as previously disclosed, in january 2008, the company announced the results of the enhance clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of ldl bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. as previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg ( vytorin ) significantly lowered ldl bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre-specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. the improve-it trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome. no incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. in january 2009, the fda announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of enhance. the fda stated that the results from enhance did not change its position that elevated ldl cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering ldl cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. the improve-it trial is scheduled for completion in 2014. in the improve-it trial, blinded interim efficacy analyses were conducted by the dsmb for the trial when approximately 50% and 75% of the endpoints were accrued, respectively. in each case, the dsmb recommended continuing the trial without change in design. at the time of the second interim efficacy analysis, the dsmb stated it planned to review the data again in approximately nine months; that review has been scheduled for march 2013, at which point nine months of additional data will have been adjudicated. if, based on the results of that review, the trial were to be halted because of concerns related to vytorin , that could have a material adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia . these issues concerning the enhance clinical trial have had an adverse effect on sales of vytorin and zetia and could continue to have an adverse effect on such sales. if the results of the improve-it trial fail to demonstrate an incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin, sales of zetia and vytorin could be materially adversely affected. if sales of such products are materially adversely affected, the company business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects could also be materially adversely affected and the company could be required to record a material non-cash impairment charge. 28 table of contents the company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. the company has been taking steps to increase its presence in emerging markets. however, there is no guarantee that the company efforts to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. in order for the company to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. the company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. in addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and the company cannot offset the devaluations, the company financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. for instance, in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency. as a result of that devaluation, the company will recognize losses due to exchange. for all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. however, a failure to continue to expand the company business in emerging markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of the company operations. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. the company operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such, virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. additionally, the company has entered and will enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. since the company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively affect the company results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. while hedging agreements, such as currency options and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations. the company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. significant judgment is required for determining the company tax liabilities, and the company tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. in february 2012, president obama administration re-proposed significant changes to the u.s. international tax laws, including changes that would tax companies on excess returns attributable to certain offshore intangible assets, limit u.s. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the u.s. foreign tax credit rules. other potentially significant changes to the u.s. international laws, including a move toward a territorial tax system, have been set out by various congressional committees. the company cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. if these or other changes to the u.s. international tax laws are enacted, they could have a significant impact on the financial results of the company. in addition, the company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings (deferral), or other limitations impacting the u.s. tax treatment of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 29 table of contents pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the company business. all aspects of the company business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company business. reliance on third party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect the company business. the company depends on third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology systems. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. the size and complexity of the company computer systems makes them potentially vulnerable to service interruption, malicious intrusion and random attacks. in addition, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that data, including intellectual property or personal information, may be exposed to unauthorized individuals or to the public. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to protect its data and systems will prevent service interruption or the loss of critical or sensitive information which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the company. negative events in the animal health industry could have a negative impact on future results of operations. future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. for example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely impact the company results of operations. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the company main production sites could require the company to immediately halt production of vaccines at such sites or force the company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or vaccines elsewhere. other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. as the animal health segment of the company business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations would also become more significant. biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. the successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. there are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, including: there may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. in addition, government regulations in 30 table of contents multiple jurisdictions, such as the united states and the eu, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. if the company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. the development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are subject to regulation by the fda, the ema and other regulatory bodies. these regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. for example, in the united states, a bla, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and fda approval is required for the release of each manufactured commercial lot. manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. each lot of an approved biologic must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. when changes are made to the manufacturing process, the company may be required to provide pre-clinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the products before and after such changes. biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. in particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. the use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. any of these events could result in substantial costs. product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. as a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. with respect to product liability, the company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. the company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for certain product liabilities effective august 1, 2004, including liability for legacy merck products first sold after that date. the company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. cautionary factors that may affect future results (cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995) this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are based on management current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. one can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. one can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. these statements are likely to address the company growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential, and development programs. one must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company forward-looking statements. these factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are 31 table of contents known and some that are not. no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. the company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. the company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: competition from generic products as the company products, such as singulair and maxalt , lose patent protection. increased brand competition in therapeutic areas important to the company long-term business performance. the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. a drug candidate can fail at any stage of the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. new product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. pricing pressures, both in the united states and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the company business. efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. significant litigation related to vioxx and fosamax. legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the united states and the eu. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the company business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states in the united states requiring security breach notification. changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the financial accounting standards board and the sec, that are adverse to the company. economic factors over which the company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. this list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. see risk factors above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under financial instruments market risk disclosures in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 80 table of contents