quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (pages 56 and 57) of the registrant 2002 annual report to shareholders attached to this filing as exhibit 13.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (pages 63 through 64) of the registrant 2003 annual report to shareholders attached to this filing as exhibit 13.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the market risk management section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (pages 29 through 31) of the registrant 2004 annual report to shareholders attached to this filing as exhibit 13.risk factors 22-24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38-47risk factors 22-25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39-49risk factors 20-23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41-51risk factors 21-25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43-61risk factors 23-28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48-62risk factors 25-31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52-72risk factors 26-34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72-75risk factors 27-35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75-78risk factors 27-35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73-76risk factors 26-34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72-75risk factors 191-201 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81-85risk factors 186-196 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79-83risk factors 26-37 risk factors the risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the bancorp financial condition, the results of its operations or its business. some of these risks are interrelated and the occurrence of one or more of them may exacerbate the effect of others. credit risks deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted fifth third in the past and may adversely impact fifth third in the future. when fifth third lends money or commits to lend money the bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not repay their loans, leases, credit cards, derivative obligations, or other credit obligations. the performance of these credit portfolios significantly affects the bancorp financial results and condition. if the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have difficulty in repaying their credit obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. fifth third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. the amount of these reserves is based on fifth third assessment of credit losses inherent in the credit portfolios including unfunded credit commitments. the process for determining the amount of the alll and the reserve for unfunded commitments is critical to fifth third financial results and condition. it requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. fifth third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its portfolios and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. fifth third might increase the reserve because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior or changing protections in credit agreements. as an example, borrowers may strategically default, or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. fifth third believes that both the alll and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at december 31, 2018; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions decline. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, fifth third may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings. for more information, refer to the credit risk management subsection of the risk management section of md&amp;a and the allowance for loan and losses and reserve for unfunded commitments subsections of the critical accounting policies section of md&amp;a. fifth third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by location or industry of the borrowers or collateral. fifth third credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions and commodity and real estate values in certain states or locations could result in materially higher credit losses if loans are concentrated in those locations. fifth third has significant exposures to businesses in certain economic sectors such as manufacturing, real estate, financial services, insurance and healthcare, and weaknesses in those businesses may adversely impact fifth third business, results of operations or financial condition. additionally fifth third has a substantial portfolio of commercial and residential real estate loans and weaknesses in residential or commercial real estate markets may adversely impact fifth third business, results of operations or financial condition. problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to fifth third could adversely affect financial markets generally and have direct and indirect adverse effects on fifth third. fifth third has exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry and other industries, and routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. many of fifth third transactions with other financial institutions expose fifth third to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, fifth third credit risk may be affected when the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect fifth third. liquidity risks fifth third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. fifth third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. fifth third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans fifth third makes and the operations of fifth third business. core deposits, which include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided fifth third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds (average core deposits funded 72% of average total assets for the year ending december 31, 2018). in addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, fifth third sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets and the pledging of loans and investment securities to access secured borrowing facilities through the fhlb and the frb, and fifth third ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets. fifth third liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. 26 fifth third bancorp table of contents other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect fifth third liquidity and funding include: a lack of market or customer confidence in fifth third or negative news about fifth third or the financial services industry generally, which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits due to competition from other banks or due to alternative investments; inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, increased regulatory requirements, and reductions in one or more of fifth third credit ratings. a reduced credit rating could adversely affect fifth third ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect fifth third ability to raise liquidity or capital. many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which fifth third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur again in the future. recent regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact fifth third results of operations and competitive position. various regulations have been adopted to impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including fifth third. these regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing and minimum liquidity requirements. given the overlap and complex interactions of these new and prospective liquidity-related regulations with other regulatory changes, including the capital and resolution and recovery framework applicable to fifth third, the full impact of these regulations will remain uncertain until their full implementation. although the application of certain of these regulations to banking organizations such as fifth third are expected to be modified, including in connection with the implementation of the egrrcpa, there remains uncertainty as to the timing, scope and nature of any changes to regulatory requirements. uncertainty about the timing and scope of changes as well as the cost of complying with a new regulatory regime may negatively impact fifth third business. if fifth third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if fifth third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, then fifth third liquidity, operating margins and financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. fifth third may also need to raise additional capital and liquidity through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends or share repurchases to preserve capital and liquidity. fifth third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies. fifth third ability to access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to fifth third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. the interest rates that fifth third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. a downgrade to fifth third or its subsidiaries credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. a ratings downgrade to fifth third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities of fifth third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase fifth third costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by fifth third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. if fifth third is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. the total amount that fifth third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on fifth third ability to maintain or grow its deposits. if fifth third is unable to sufficiently maintain or grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. fifth third competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, fifth third funding costs may increase, either because fifth third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because fifth third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. also, customers typically move money from bank deposits to alternative investments during rising interest rate environments, an environment that the u.s. has seen recently and is expected to see over the medium-term. customers may also move noninterest-bearing deposits to interest-bearing accounts increasing the cost of those deposits. checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. fifth third bank customers could take their money out of fifth third bank and put it in alternative investments, causing fifth third to lose a lower cost source of funding. higher funding costs reduce fifth third net interest margin and net interest income. the bancorp ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. fifth third bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. fifth third bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on fifth third bancorp stock and interest and principal on its debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the bancorp banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. regulatory scrutiny of liquidity and capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks such as the parent bank holding companies. also, fifth third bancorp right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary creditors. 27 fifth third bancorp table of contents limitations on the bancorp ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt and to engage in share repurchases. for further information refer to note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. operational risks fifth third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service, hacking and identity theft, which could result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information. fifth third relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. this includes the use of networks, the internet, digital applications and the telecommunications and computer systems of third parties to perform business activities. additionally, digital and mobile technologies are leveraged to interact with customers, which increases the risk of information security breaches. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to fifth third accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect its customer relationships. while fifth third has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated. there have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber-attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. there have been several recent instances involving financial services, credit bureaus and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments. in addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, fifth third may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. furthermore, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently related distributed denial of service attacks on large financial services companies, including fifth third bank, and ransom attacks where hackers have requested payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and fifth third may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. these risks are heightened through the increasing use of digital and mobile solutions which allow for rapid money movement and increase the difficulty to detect and prevent fraudulent transactions. fifth third may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks or in the investigation of such cyber-attacks or related to the protection of the bancorp customers from identity theft as a result of such attacks. fifth third may also be required to incur significant costs in connection with any regulatory investigation or civil litigation resulting from a cyber-attack. despite its efforts, the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of fifth third systems or third-party service providers (or providers to such third-party service providers), particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage fifth third reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in substantial remediation costs, additional cyber-security protection costs and increased insurance premiums, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability. fifth third relies on its systems and certain third-party service providers and certain failures could materially adversely affect operations. fifth third operations, including its financial and accounting systems, use computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both fifth third and third-party service providers. additionally, fifth third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing those and other systems and networks. fifth third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. fifth third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. in addition, fifth third requires its third-party service providers to maintain similar controls. however, fifth third cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. a security breach in these systems or the loss or corruption of confidential information such as business results, transaction records and related information could adversely impact fifth third ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities, significant reputational harm and the loss of confidence in fifth third. additionally, security breaches or the loss, theft or corruption of confidential customer information such as social security numbers, credit card numbers, account balances or other information could result in losses by our customers, litigation, regulatory sanctions, lost customers and revenue, increased costs and significant reputational harm. fifth third necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. fifth third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). third parties with which the bancorp does business both domestically and offshore, as well as vendors and other third parties with which the bancorp customers do business, can also be sources of operational risk to the bancorp, particularly where activities of customers are beyond the bancorp security and control systems, such as through the use of the internet, personal computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile services. security breaches affecting the bancorp customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or employee misconduct affecting such other third parties, may require the bancorp to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information of the bancorp or its customers, thereby increasing the bancorp operational costs and potentially diminishing customer satisfaction. if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the bancorp possession were to be mishandled or misused, the bancorp could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of the bancorp systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. 28 fifth third bancorp table of contents the bancorp may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the bancorp control, which may include, for example, security breaches; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer components or servers or other damage to the bancorp property or assets; natural disasters or severe weather conditions; health emergencies; or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. for example, it has been reported that there is a fundamental security flaw in computer chips found in many types of computing devices, including phones, tablets, laptops and desktops. while the bancorp believes that its current resiliency plans are both sufficient and adequate, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the bancorp or its customers and clients. any failures or disruptions of the bancorp systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the bancorp business and results of operations by subjecting the bancorp to losses or liability, or require the bancorp to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the bancorp to reputational harm, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. the bancorp could also be adversely affected if it loses access to information or services from a third-party service provider as a result of a security breach or system or operational failure or disruption affecting the third-party service provider. fifth third may not be able to effectively manage organizational changes and implement key initiatives in a timely fashion, or at all, due to competing priorities which could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. fifth third is subject to rapid changes in technology, regulation and product innovation, and faces intense competition for customers, sources of revenue, capital, services, qualified employees and other essential business resources. in order to meet these challenges, fifth third is or may be engaged in numerous critical strategic initiatives at the same time. accomplishing these initiatives may be complex, time intensive and require significant financial, technological, management and other resources. these initiatives may consume management attention and may compete for limited resources. in addition, organizational changes may need to be implemented throughout fifth third as a result of the new products, services, partnerships and processes that arise from the execution of the various strategic initiatives. fifth third may have difficulty managing these organizational changes and executing these initiatives effectively in a timely fashion, or at all. fifth third failure to do so could expose it to litigation or regulatory action and may damage fifth third business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. fifth third may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect fifth third business operations and profitability. fifth third invests significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. fifth third may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, or may not be able to do so on a cost-effective basis. such sanctions could include fines and result in reputational harm and have other negative effects. in addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations. failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact fifth third financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. in addition, fifth third may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time. fifth third framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating its risk and loss. fifth third risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. fifth third has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, legal risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk and operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. any system of control and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. a failure in fifth third internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on its earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of fifth third. fifth third continues to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving its controls and ensuring compliance with complex regulations. additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, fifth third may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. if fifth third risk management framework proves ineffective, fifth third could incur litigation, negative regulatory consequences, reputational damages among other adverse consequences and fifth third could suffer unexpected losses that may affect its financial condition or results of operations. fifth third may experience losses related to fraud, theft or violence. fifth third may experience losses incurred due to customer or employee fraud, theft or physical violence. additionally, physical violence may negatively affect fifth third key personnel, facilities or systems. these losses may be material and negatively affect fifth third results of operations, financial condition or prospects. these losses could also lead to significant reputational risks and other effects. the sophistication of external fraud actors continues to increase, and in some cases includes large criminal rings, which increases the resources and infrastructure needed to thwart these attacks. the industry fraud threat continues to evolve, including but not limited to card fraud, check fraud, social engineering and phishing attacks for identity theft and account takeover. fifth third continues to invest in fraud prevention in the forms of people and systems designed to prevent, detect and mitigate the customer and financial impacts. fifth third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. fifth third success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that fifth third serves is intense, which may increase fifth third expenses and may result in fifth third not being able to hire candidates or retain them. 29 fifth third bancorp table of contents if fifth third is not able to hire qualified candidates or retain its key personnel, fifth third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition. compensation paid by financial institutions such as fifth third is heavily regulated, particularly under dodd-frank, which regulation affects the amount and form of compensation fifth third pays to hire and retain talented employees. if fifth third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, fifth third performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. regulatory compliance risks fifth third is subject to extensive governmental regulation which could adversely impact fifth third or the businesses in which fifth third is engaged. government regulation and legislation subject fifth third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on fifth third business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of its common stock. fifth third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which fifth third may engage. these laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers and depositors and are not designed to protect security-holders. the impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact fifth third or its ability to increase the value of its business. additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against fifth third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect fifth third and its shareholders. future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to fifth third and its shareholders or may require fifth third to expend significant time and resources to comply with such requirements. fifth third cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on fifth third. changes in regulation could affect fifth third in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, legislation or regulatory reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that fifth third deals with in the course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. the extent to which fifth third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time. in addition, changes in laws or regulations that affect fifth third customers and business partners could negatively affect fifth third revenues and expenses. certain changes in laws such as recent tax law reforms that impose limitations on the deductibility of interest may decrease the demand for fifth third products or services and could negatively affect its revenues and results of operations. other changes in laws or regulations could cause fifth third third-party service providers and other vendors to increase the prices they charge to fifth third and negatively affect fifth third expenses and financial results. fifth third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, the frb, the fdic, the cfpb and the division have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by the bancorp and fifth third bank. the bancorp and fifth third bank are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. there can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair the bancorp operations, restrict its growth, ability to compete, innovate or participate in industry consolidation and/or affect its dividend policy. such actions and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends or capital distributions by the bancorp or fifth third bank, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses. failure by the bancorp or fifth third bank to meet the applicable eligibility requirements for fhc status (including capital and management requirements and that fifth third bank maintain at least a satisfactory cra rating) may result in restrictions on certain activities of the bancorp, including the commencement of new activities and mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. fifth third and other financial institutions are subject to scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, liquidity and capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, aml/bsa, consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises. in this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect fifth third ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith. the government enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. in some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial institution. finally, as part of fifth third regular examination process, the bancorp and fifth third bank respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect fifth third ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on fifth third business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed. 30 fifth third bancorp table of contents fifth third could face serious negative consequences if its third-party service providers, business partners or investments fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. fifth third is expected to oversee the legal and regulatory compliance of its business endeavors, including those performed by third-party service providers, business partners, other vendors and certain companies in which fifth third has invested. legal authorities and regulators could hold fifth third responsible for failures by these parties to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. these failures could expose fifth third to significant litigation or regulatory action that could limit its activities or impose significant fines or other financial losses. additionally, fifth third could be subject to significant litigation from consumers or other parties harmed by these failures and could suffer significant losses of business and revenue, as well as reputational harm as a result of these failures. as a regulated entity, the bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. as a bhc and an fhc, the bancorp is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. the bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the frb which can change depending upon general economic conditions and the bancorp particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the bancorp ability to expand or maintain present business levels. u.s. federal banking agencies capital rules implementing basel iii became effective for the bancorp on january 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain components and other provisions. the need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity could limit fifth third business activities, including lending and the ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions as well as the ability to make capital distributions. moreover, although the capital requirements are being phased in over time, u.s. federal banking agencies take into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet the capital requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases. failure by fifth third bank to meet applicable capital requirements could subject it to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. these include limitations on the ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase shares, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the fdic. the bancorp ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. the bancorp ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory expectations. as part of ccar, the bancorp capital plan is subject to an annual assessment by the frb, and the frb may object to the bancorp capital plan if the bancorp does not demonstrate an ability to maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon. if the frb objects to the bancorp capital plan, it would be subject to limitations on its ability to make capital distributions (including paying dividends and repurchasing stock). regulation of fifth third by the cftc imposes additional operational and compliance costs. the cftc and sec regulate the u.s. derivatives markets pursuant to the authority provided under title vii of dodd-frank. while most of the provisions related to derivatives markets are now in effect, several additional requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, the cftc and the sec. one aspect of this regulatory regime for derivatives is that substantial oversight responsibility has been provided to the cftc, which, as a result, now has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of fifth third businesses. in 2014, fifth third bank provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the cftc and became subject to new substantive requirements, including real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest) and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. although the ultimate impact will depend on the promulgation of all final regulations, fifth third derivatives activity is subject to frb margin requirements and may also be subject to capital requirements specific to this derivatives activity. these requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on fifth third and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). once finalized, the rules may raise the costs and liquidity burden associated with fifth third derivatives activities and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. deposit insurance premiums levied against fifth third bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks increases. the fdic maintains a dif to protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. the dif is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including fifth third bank. future deposit premiums paid by fifth third bank depend on fdic rules, which are subject to change, the level of the dif and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. fifth third bank may be required to pay significantly higher fdic premiums if market developments change such that the dif balance is reduced or the fdic changes its rules to require higher premiums. if an orderly liquidation of a systemically important bhc or non-bank financial company were triggered, fifth third could face assessments for the orderly liquidation fund. dodd-frank created authority for the orderly liquidation of systemically important bhcs and non-bank financial companies and is based on the fdic bank resolution model. the secretary of the u.s. treasury may trigger liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the president of the united states and after receiving a recommendation from the board of the fdic and the frb upon a two-thirds vote. liquidation proceedings will be funded by the orderly liquidation fund established under dodd-frank, which will borrow from the u.s. treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. 31 fifth third bancorp table of contents risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as fifth third. any such assessments may adversely affect fifth third business, financial condition or results of operations. market risks the replacement of libor could adversely affect fifth third revenue or expenses and the value of those assets or obligations. libor and certain other benchmarks are the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, publicly announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. the announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after 2021. while there is no consensus on what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, a group of large banks, the alternative reference rate committee or arrc, selected and the federal reserve bank of new york started in may 2018 to publish the secured overnight finance rate or sofr as an alternative to libor. sofr is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by treasury securities, given the depth and robustness of the u.s. treasury repurchase market. furthermore, the bank of england has commenced publication of a reformed sterling overnight index average or sonia, comprised of a broader set of overnight sterling money market transactions, as of april 23, 2018. the sonia has been recommended as the alternative to sterling libor by the working group on sterling risk-free reference rates. at this time, it is impossible to predict whether sofr and sonia will become accepted alternatives to libor. the market transition away from libor to an alternative reference rate, including sofr or sonia, is complex and could have a range of adverse effects on fifth third business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular, any such transition could: adversely affect the interest rates paid or received on, and the revenue and expenses associated with, the bancorp floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given libor role in determining market interest rates globally; adversely affect the value of the bancorp floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given libor role in determining market interest rates globally; prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of the bancorp preparation and readiness for the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate; result in disputes, litigation or other actions with counterparties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in libor-based securities; and require the transition to or development of appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition the bancorp risk management processes from libor-based products to those based on the applicable alternative pricing benchmark, such as sofr or reformed sonia. the manner and impact of this transition, as well as the effect of these developments on fifth third funding costs, loan and investment and trading securities portfolios, asset-liability management, and business, is uncertain. weakness in the u.s. economy, including within fifth third geographic footprint, has adversely affected fifth third in the past and may adversely affect fifth third in the future. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general or the strength of the local economies in which fifth third conducts operations declines, this could result in, among other things, a decreased demand for fifth third products and services, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on fifth third loan portfolio and alll and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. these factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses in future periods, which could materially adversely affect fifth third financial condition and results of operations. global political and economic uncertainties and changes may adversely affect fifth third. global financial markets, including the united states, face political and economic uncertainties that may delay investment and hamper economic activity. international events such as trade disputes, separatist movements, leadership changes and political and military conflicts could adversely affect global financial activity and markets and could negatively affect the u.s. economy. additionally, the frb and other major central banks have begun the process of removing or reducing monetary accommodation, increasing the risk of recession and may also negatively impact asset values and credit spreads that were impacted by extraordinary monetary stimulus. these potential negative effects on financial markets and economic activity could lead to reduced revenues, increased costs, increased credit risks and volatile markets, and could negatively impact fifth third businesses, results of operations and financial condition. changes in interest rates could affect fifth third income and cash flows. fifth third income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. these rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond fifth third control, including general economic conditions in the u.s. or abroad and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the frb). changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding as well as customers ability to repay loans. 32 fifth third bancorp table of contents the impact of these changes may be magnified if fifth third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect fifth third, its customers and its shareholders. changes and trends in the capital markets may affect fifth third income and cash flows. fifth third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages investment positions on behalf of its customers. these investment positions include derivative financial instruments. the revenues and profits fifth third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent on market prices. market changes and trends may result in a decline in wealth and asset management revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact fifth third. losses on behalf of its customers could expose fifth third to reputational issues, litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those clients and customers. additionally, losses in fifth third trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect fifth third income, cash flows and funding costs. fifth third stock price is volatile. fifth third stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. these factors include, without limitation: actual or anticipated variations in earnings; changes in analysts recommendations or projections; fifth third announcements of developments related to its businesses; operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; actions by government regulators and changes in the regulatory regime; new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors; news reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry; u.s. and global economic conditions; natural disasters; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism, military conflicts and withdrawal from the eu by the u.k. or other eu members. the price for shares of fifth third common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future and these fluctuations may be unrelated to fifth third performance. general market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of fifth third common stock and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of future market prices. fifth third mortgage banking net revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter. fifth third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue fifth third receives from loan originations. at the same time, revenue from msrs can increase through increases in fair value. when rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of msrs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a natural hedge, the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. for example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential msrs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the msrs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. it is also possible that even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the msrs value caused by the lower rates. fifth third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. fifth third generally does not hedge all of its risks and the fact that fifth third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean fifth third will be successful. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. fifth third may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. fifth third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. there may be periods where fifth third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. legal risks fifth third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and litigation, regulatory or other enforcement proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences. fifth third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective customers and businesses, as well as their sales practices, data security, product offerings, compensation practices and other compliance issues. also, a violation of law or regulation by another financial institution may give rise to an inquiry or investigation by regulators or other authorities of the same or similar practices by fifth third. in addition, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the u.s. means that a single event or topic may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings. in addition, fifth third and certain of its directors and officers have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to fifth third business and activities, as well as regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. enforcement authorities may seek admissions of wrongdoing and, in some cases, criminal pleas as part of the resolutions of matters and any such resolution of a matter involving fifth third which could lead to increased exposure to private litigation, could adversely affect fifth third reputation and could result in limitations on fifth third ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. 33 fifth third bancorp table of contents each of the matters described above may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of fifth third sec filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. in addition, responding to information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, could be time-consuming and expensive. like other large financial institutions and companies, fifth third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or other enforcement action against fifth third could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business. the outcome of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate. although fifth third establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, fifth third does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. in addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to fifth third from the legal proceedings in question. thus, fifth third ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect fifth third results of operations. in addition, there has been a trend of public settlements with governmental agencies that may adversely affect other financial institutions, to the extent such settlements are used as a template for future settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties. for further information on specific legal and regulatory proceedings refer to note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. fifth third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties. fifth third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including gses and other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. fifth third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a specified period (usually 60 days or less) after fifth third receives notice of the breach. contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the gses include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. if economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and fifth third success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, fifth third could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve. strategic risks if fifth third does not respond to intense competition and rapid changes in the financial services industry or otherwise adapt to changing customer preferences, its financial performance may suffer. fifth third ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. in addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, fifth third competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and insurance companies as well as large retailers who seek to offer one-stop financial services in addition to other products and services desired by consumers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. many of these other firms may be significantly larger than fifth third and may have access to customers and financial resources that are beyond fifth third capability. fifth third competes with these firms with respect to capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. this increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in customer preferences, regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. rapidly changing technology and consumer preferences may require fifth third to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services in order to compete and meet customer demands. fifth third may not be able to do so or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. as a result, fifth third ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and its business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. fifth third may make strategic investments and may expand an existing line of business or enter into new lines of business to remain competitive. if fifth third chosen strategies, for example, the northstar strategy initiatives, are not appropriate to allow fifth third to effectively compete or fifth third does not execute them in an appropriate or timely manner, fifth third business and results may suffer. additionally, these strategies, products and lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen risks and may not generate the expected results or returns, which could adversely affect fifth third results of operations or future growth prospects and cause fifth third to fail to meet its stated goals and expectations. changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact fifth third investments in its bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel. fifth third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,121 full-service banking centers and 28 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers of which 15 properties are developed or in the process of being developed as branches, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. 34 fifth third bancorp table of contents advances in technology such as e-commerce, telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch self-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences for these other methods of accessing fifth third products and services, could affect the value of fifth third branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce its remaining branches and work force. further advances in technology and/or changes in customer preferences could have additional changes in fifth third retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. these actions could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail distribution channel. difficulties in identifying suitable opportunities or combining the operations of acquired entities or assets with fifth third own operations or assessing the effectiveness of businesses in which we make strategic investments or with which we enter into strategic contractual relationships may prevent fifth third from achieving the expected benefits from these acquisitions, investments or relationships. inherent uncertainties exist when assessing, acquiring or integrating the operations of another business or investment or relationship opportunity. fifth third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies relevant to an acquisition or strategic relationship. in addition, the markets and industries in which fifth third and its potential acquisition and investment targets operate are highly competitive. acquisition or investment targets may lose customers or otherwise perform poorly or unprofitably, or in the case of an acquired business or strategic relationship, cause fifth third to lose customers or perform poorly or unprofitably. future acquisition and investment activities and efforts to monitor newly acquired businesses or reap the benefits of a new strategic relationship may require fifth third to devote substantial time and resources and may cause these acquisitions, investments and relationships to be unprofitable or cause fifth third to be unable to pursue other business opportunities. after completing an acquisition, fifth third may find that certain material information was not adequately disclosed during the due diligence process or that certain items were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. fifth third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. for example, fifth third could experience higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. additionally, acquired companies or businesses may increase fifth third risk of regulatory action or restrictions related to the operations of the acquired business. future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders ownership of fifth third and may cause fifth third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. future business acquisitions could be material to fifth third and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders ownership interests. acquisitions also could require fifth third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. in those events, fifth third could become more susceptible to economic downturns, dislocations in capital markets and competitive pressures. fifth third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses or investments. should it determine to sell such a business or investment, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders equity commensurate with desirable levels. moreover, if fifth third sold such businesses or investments, the loss of income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth. fifth third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as applicable, several non-strategic businesses, investments and other assets that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses or, in the future, may no longer be aligned with fifth third strategic plans or regulatory expectations. if fifth third were to sell one or more of its businesses or investments, it would be subject to market forces that may affect the timing, pricing or result in an unsuccessful sale. if fifth third were to complete the sale of any of its businesses, investments and/or interests in third parties, it would lose the income from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth. additionally, fifth third may encounter difficulties in separating the operations of any businesses it sells, which may affect its business or results of operations. general business risks changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact fifth third reported earnings and financial condition. the accounting standard setters, including the fasb, the sec and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of fifth third consolidated financial statements. for example, in june 2016, the fasb issued a new current expected credit loss rule, which will require banks to record, at the time of origination, credit losses expected throughout the life of the asset portfolio on loans and held-to-maturity securities, as opposed to the current practice of recording losses when it is probable that a loss event has occurred. for additional information, refer to note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how fifth third records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, fifth third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of fifth third prior period financial statements. fifth third uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results. fifth third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs and other purposes. the models used may not accurately account for all variables and may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. as a result of these potential failures, fifth third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures. also, information fifth third provides to the public or to its regulators based on models could be inaccurate or misleading due to inadequate design or implementation, for example. decisions that its regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to its shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the models used to generate the relevant information are unreliable or inadequate. 35 fifth third bancorp table of contents the preparation of financial statements requires fifth third to make subjective determinations and use estimates that may vary from actual results and materially impact its results of operations or financial position. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. if new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change to previously announced financial results. refer to the critical accounting policies section of md&amp;a for more information regarding management significant estimates. weather-related events or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of fifth third loan portfolios, especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations. fifth third footprint stretches from the upper midwestern to lower southeastern regions of the united states and it has offices in many other areas of the country. some of these regions have experienced weather events including hurricanes, tornadoes, fires and other natural disasters. the nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. if large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers ability to repay their loans. fifth third is exposed to reputational risk. fifth third actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as certain sales and lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, behavior of employees, association with particular customers, business partners, investment or vendors, as well as developments from any of the other risks described above, may result in negative public opinion and may damage fifth third reputation. actions taken by government regulators, shareholder activists and community organizations may also damage fifth third reputation. additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the advent and expansion of social media facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation. though fifth third monitors social media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information that could damage fifth third reputation. negative public opinion can adversely affect fifth third ability to attract and keep customers and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and regulatory action. risks related to merger with mb financial, inc. ( mb financial ) the acquisition of mb financial will dilute current shareholders ownership of fifth third and may cause fifth third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. fifth third will issue a substantial number of additional shares of stock in its merger with mb financial, which will dilute current shareholders ownership interests and increase fifth third dividend payments. fifth third will also use substantial cash or other liquid assets or incur debt to fund the merger. this liquidity need combined with 2019 maturities and liquidity needed to satisfy rating agency requirements will elevate capital markets execution risk. as a result, fifth third could become more susceptible to economic downturns, market conditions and competitive pressures. fifth third and mb financial will incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the merger. each of fifth third and mb financial has incurred and expects that it will incur additional significant, non-recurring costs in connection with consummating the merger. in addition, fifth third will incur additional integration costs following the completion of the merger as fifth third integrates the businesses of the two companies, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. there can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the combined businesses will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. fifth third may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger and may face increased risks as a result of it. inherent uncertainties exist when assessing, acquiring, or integrating the operations of another business or investment or relationship opportunity. fifth third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in its acquisition of mb financial, inc. additionally, fifth third may face additional risks as a result of the acquisition. the success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend on, among other things, fifth third ability to combine the businesses of fifth third and mb financial in a manner that permits growth opportunities, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies, and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of fifth third or mb financial or result in decreased revenues due to any loss of customers. if fifth third is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. employees that fifth third wishes to retain may elect to terminate their employment as a result of the merger, which could delay or disrupt the integration process. it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of fifth third or mb financial ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of fifth third or mb financial to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. after completing the acquisition, fifth third may find that certain material information was not adequately disclosed during the due diligence process or that certain items were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. fifth third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition and may face increased risks pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. for example, fifth third could experience greater credit risk and higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. additionally, the acquisition may increase fifth third compliance and legal risks including increased litigation or regulatory actions such as fines or restrictions related to the business practices or operations of the acquired business. 36 fifth third bancorp table of contents regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met. before the transactions contemplated in the merger agreement can be completed, various approvals must be obtained from the bank regulatory and other governmental authorities. in deciding whether to grant these approvals, the relevant governmental entities will consider a variety of factors, including the regulatory standing of each of the parties and the effect of the merger on competition. an adverse development in either party regulatory standing or other factors could result in an inability to obtain one or more of the required regulatory approvals or delay receipt of required approvals. the frb has stated that if supervisory issues arise during processing of an application for approval of a merger transaction, a banking organization will be expected to withdraw its application pending resolution of such supervisory concerns. accordingly, if there is an adverse development in either party regulatory standing, fifth third may be required to withdraw its application for approval of the proposed merger and, if possible, resubmit it after the applicable supervisory concerns have been resolved. the terms of the approvals that are granted may impose conditions, limitations, obligations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company business or require changes to the terms of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. there can be no assurance that regulators will not impose any such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger if the merger were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe. nor can there be any assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. additionally, the completion of the merger is conditioned on the absence of certain orders, injunctions or decrees by any court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction that would prohibit or make illegal the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. fifth third and mb financial believe that the proposed merger should not raise significant regulatory concerns and that fifth third will be able to obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a timely manner. in addition, despite the parties commitments to use their reasonable best efforts to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities, under the terms of the merger agreement, fifth third and mb financial will not be required to take actions that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on fifth third and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the merger (measured on a scale relative to mb financial and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole). the merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be completed. the merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the transaction. those conditions include: receipt of requisite regulatory approvals, absence of orders prohibiting completion of any of the proposed transactions, approval of the fifth third common shares to be issued in connection with the merger for listing on the nasdaq, the accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties (subject to the materiality standards set forth in the merger agreement), the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements and the receipt by both parties of legal opinions from their respective tax counsels. these conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. in addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, or fifth third or mb financial may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances, as set forth in the agreement. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 104 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk management section of item 7 of this report on pages 93-97 and is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 27-37 risk factors the risks and uncertainties listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the bancorp's financial condition, the results of its operations or its business. some of these risks and uncertainties are interrelated and the occurrence of one or more of them may exacerbate the effect of others. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. see cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for more information. credit risks deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted fifth third in the past and may adversely impact fifth third in the future. when fifth third lends money or commits to lend money, the bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not repay their loans, leases, credit cards, derivative obligations, or other credit obligations. the performance of these credit portfolios significantly affects the bancorp's financial results and condition. if the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have difficulty in repaying their credit obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. fifth third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. the amount of these reserves is based on fifth third's assessment of credit losses inherent in the credit portfolios including unfunded credit commitments. the process for determining the amount of the alll and the reserve for unfunded commitments is critical to fifth third's financial results and condition. it requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. fifth third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its portfolios and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. fifth third might increase the reserve because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower's behavior or changing protections in credit agreements. as an example, borrowers may strategically default, or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. fifth third believes that both the alll and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at december 31, 2019; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions decline. in the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, fifth third may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings. for more information, refer to the credit risk management subsection of the risk management section and the allowance for loan and losses and reserve for unfunded commitments subsections of the critical accounting policies section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. fifth third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by location or industry of the borrowers or collateral. fifth third's credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions and commodity and real estate values in certain states or locations could result in materially higher credit losses if loans are concentrated in those locations. fifth third has significant exposures to businesses in certain economic sectors such as manufacturing, real estate, financial services, insurance and healthcare, and weaknesses in those businesses may adversely impact fifth third's business, results of operations or financial condition. additionally, fifth third has a substantial portfolio of commercial and residential real estate loans and weaknesses in residential or commercial real estate markets may adversely impact fifth third's business, results of operations or financial condition. problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to fifth third could adversely affect financial markets generally and have direct and indirect adverse effects on fifth third. fifth third has exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry and other industries, and routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. many of fifth third's transactions with other financial institutions expose fifth third to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, fifth third's credit risk may be affected when the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect fifth third. liquidity risks fifth third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. fifth third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. fifth third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans fifth third makes and the operations of fifth third's business. core deposits, which include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided fifth third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds (average core deposits funded 71% of average total assets for the year ending december 31, 2019). in addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, fifth third's sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets and the pledging of loans and investment securities to access secured borrowing facilities through the fhlb and the frb, and fifth third's ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets. 27 fifth third bancorp table of contents fifth third's liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect fifth third's liquidity and funding include: a lack of market or customer confidence in fifth third or negative news about fifth third or the financial services industry generally, which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits due to competition from other banks or due to alternative investments; inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, increased regulatory requirements; and reductions in one or more of fifth third's credit ratings. a reduced credit rating could adversely affect fifth third's ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect fifth third's ability to raise liquidity or capital. many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which fifth third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur again in the future. regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact fifth third's results of operations and competitive position. various regulations have been adopted to impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including fifth third. these regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing and minimum liquidity requirements. the application of certain of these regulations to banking organizations, such as fifth third, have been modified, including in connection with the implementation of the egrrcpa. if fifth third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if fifth third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, then fifth third's liquidity, operating margins and financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. fifth third may also need to raise additional capital and liquidity through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends or share repurchases to preserve capital and liquidity. fifth third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies. fifth third's ability to access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. this access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to fifth third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. the interest rates that fifth third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. a downgrade to fifth third or its subsidiaries' credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. a ratings downgrade to fifth third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities of fifth third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase fifth third's costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by fifth third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. if fifth third is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. the total amount that fifth third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on fifth third's ability to maintain or grow its deposits. if fifth third is unable to sufficiently maintain or grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. fifth third competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. if competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, fifth third's funding costs may increase, either because fifth third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because fifth third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. also, customers typically move money from bank deposits to alternative investments during rising interest rate environments, an environment that the u.s. has seen recently and is expected to see over the medium-term. customers may also move noninterest-bearing deposits to interest-bearing accounts increasing the cost of those deposits. checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. fifth third's bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments, causing fifth third to lose a lower cost source of funding. higher funding costs reduce fifth third's net interest margin and net interest income. the bancorp's ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. fifth third bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. fifth third bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on fifth third bancorp's stock and interest and principal on its debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the bancorp's banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the bancorp. regulatory scrutiny of liquidity and capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institutions has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks such as the parent bank holding companies. in addition, fifth third bancorp's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary's creditors. regulatory limitations on the bancorp's ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt and to engage in share repurchases. for further information, refer to regulation and supervision and note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. operational risks fifth third is exposed to cyber security risks, including denial of service, hacking and identity theft, which could result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information. fifth third relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. this includes the use of networks, the internet, digital applications and the telecommunications and computer systems of third parties to perform business activities. 28 fifth third bancorp table of contents additionally, digital and mobile technologies are leveraged to interact with customers, which increases the risk of information security breaches. failures, interruptions or breaches in the security of these systems occur across our industry with some frequency and, if a material event of this nature affects fifth third, this could result in disruptions to fifth third's accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect its customer relationships. while fifth third has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated. there have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber-attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. there have been several recent instances involving financial services, credit bureaus and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments. in addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, fifth third may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. furthermore, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently related distributed denial of service attacks on large financial services companies and ransom attacks where hackers have requested payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information. the unintentional or willful acts or omissions of employees may also create or exacerbate cybersecurity risks. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and fifth third may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. these risks are heightened through the increasing use of digital and mobile solutions which allow for rapid money movement and increase the difficulty to detect and prevent fraudulent transactions. across our industry, the cost of minimizing these risks and investigating incidents has continued to increase with the frequency and sophistication of these threats. despite its efforts, the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of fifth third's systems or third-party service providers (or providers to such third-party service providers), particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage fifth third's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in substantial remediation costs, additional cyber-security protection costs and increased insurance premiums, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability. fifth third's insurance may be inadequate to compensate for losses from a cyber-attack. fifth third relies on its systems and certain third-party service providers and certain failures could materially adversely affect operations. fifth third's operations, including its financial and accounting systems, use computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both fifth third and third-party service providers. additionally, fifth third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing those and other systems and networks. fifth third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. fifth third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. in addition, fifth third requires its third-party service providers to maintain similar controls. however, fifth third cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. a security breach in these systems or the loss or corruption of confidential information such as business results, transaction records and related information could adversely impact fifth third's ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities, significant reputational harm and the loss of confidence in fifth third. additionally, security breaches or the loss, theft or corruption of customer information such as social security numbers, credit card numbers, account balances or other information could result in losses by our customers, litigation, regulatory sanctions, lost customers and revenue, increased costs and significant reputational harm. fifth third's necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. fifth third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). third parties with which the bancorp does business both domestically and offshore, as well as vendors and other third parties with which the bancorp's customers do business, can also be sources of operational risk to the bancorp, particularly where activities of customers are beyond the bancorp's security and control systems, such as through the use of the internet, personal computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile services. security breaches affecting the bancorp's customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or employee misconduct affecting such other third parties, may require the bancorp to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information of the bancorp or its customers, thereby increasing the bancorp's operational costs and potentially diminishing customer satisfaction. if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the bancorp's or such vendors' or other third parties' possession were to be mishandled or misused, the bancorp could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of the bancorp's systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. the bancorp may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the bancorp's control, which may include, for example, security breaches; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer components or servers or other damage to the bancorp's property or assets; natural disasters or severe weather conditions; health emergencies; or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. for example, it has been reported that there is a fundamental security flaw in computer chips found in many types of computing devices, including phones, tablets, laptops and desktops. while the bancorp believes that its current resiliency plans are both sufficient and adequate, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the bancorp or its customers and clients. 29 fifth third bancorp table of contents any failures or disruptions of the bancorp's systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the bancorp's business and results of operations by subjecting the bancorp to losses or liability, or require the bancorp to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the bancorp to reputational harm, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. the bancorp could also be adversely affected if it loses access to information or services from a third-party service provider as a result of a security breach or system or operational failure or disruption affecting the third-party service provider. fifth third's insurance may be inadequate to compensate for failures by third parties upon which fifth third relies. fifth third may not be able to effectively manage organizational changes and implement key initiatives in a timely fashion, or at all, due to competing priorities which could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. fifth third is subject to rapid changes in technology, regulation and product innovation, and faces intense competition for customers, sources of revenue, capital, services, qualified employees and other essential business resources. in order to meet these challenges, fifth third is or may be engaged in numerous critical strategic initiatives at the same time. accomplishing these initiatives may be complex, time intensive and require significant financial, technological, management and other resources. these initiatives may consume management's attention and may compete for limited resources. in addition, organizational changes may need to be implemented throughout fifth third as a result of the new products, services, partnerships and processes that arise from the execution of the various strategic initiatives. fifth third may have difficulty managing these organizational changes and executing these initiatives effectively in a timely fashion, or at all. fifth third's failure to do so could expose it to litigation or regulatory action and may damage fifth third's business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. fifth third may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect fifth third's business operations and profitability. fifth third invests significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. fifth third may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, or may not be able to do so on a cost-effective basis. such sanctions could include fines and result in reputational harm and have other negative effects. in addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations. failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact fifth third's financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. in addition, fifth third may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time. fifth third's framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating its risk and loss. fifth third's risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. fifth third has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, legal risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk and operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. any system of control and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. a failure in fifth third's internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on its earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of fifth third. fifth third continues to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving its controls and ensuring compliance with complex regulations. additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, fifth third may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. if fifth third's risk management framework proves ineffective, fifth third could incur litigation, negative regulatory consequences, reputational damages among other adverse consequences and fifth third could suffer unexpected losses that may affect its financial condition or results of operations. fifth third may experience losses related to fraud, theft or violence. fifth third has experienced, and may experience again in the future, losses incurred due to customer or employee fraud, theft or physical violence. additionally, physical violence may negatively affect fifth third's key personnel, facilities or systems. these losses may be material and negatively affect fifth third's results of operations, financial condition or prospects. these losses could also lead to significant reputational risks and other effects. the sophistication of external fraud actors continues to increase, and in some cases includes large criminal rings, which increases the resources and infrastructure needed to thwart these attacks. the industry fraud threat continues to evolve, including but not limited to card fraud, check fraud, social engineering and phishing attacks for identity theft and account takeover. fifth third continues to invest in fraud prevention in the forms of people and systems designed to prevent, detect and mitigate the customer and financial impacts. fifth third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. fifth third's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that fifth third serves is intense, which may increase fifth third's expenses and may result in fifth third not being able to hire candidates or retain them. if fifth third is not able to hire qualified candidates or retain its key personnel, fifth third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition. compensation paid by financial institutions such as fifth third is heavily regulated, particularly under dodd-frank, which affects the amount and form of compensation fifth third pays to hire and retain talented employees. if fifth third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, fifth third's performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. 30 fifth third bancorp table of contents regulatory compliance risks fifth third is subject to extensive governmental regulation which could adversely impact fifth third or the businesses in which fifth third is engaged. government regulation and legislation subject fifth third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on fifth third's business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of its common stock. fifth third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which fifth third may engage. these laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers and depositors and are not designed to protect security-holders. the impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact fifth third or its ability to increase the value of its business. additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against fifth third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect fifth third and its shareholders. future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to fifth third and its shareholders or may require fifth third to expend significant time and resources to comply with such requirements. fifth third cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on fifth third. changes in regulation could affect fifth third in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, legislation or regulatory reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that fifth third deals with in the course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. the extent to which fifth third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time. in addition, changes in laws or regulations that affect fifth third's customers and business partners could negatively affect fifth third's revenues and expenses. certain changes in laws such as tax law reforms that impose limitations on the deductibility of interest may decrease the demand for fifth third's products or services and could negatively affect its revenues and results of operations. other changes in laws or regulations could cause fifth third's third-party service providers and other vendors to increase the prices they charge to fifth third and negatively affect fifth third's expenses and financial results. fifth third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, the frb, the fdic, the cfpb and the occ have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by the bancorp and the bank. the bancorp and the bank are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. there can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair the bancorp's operations, restrict its growth, ability to compete, innovate or participate in industry consolidation and/or affect its dividend policy. such actions and activities that may be subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends or other capital distributions by the bancorp or the bank, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses. failure by the bancorp or the bank to meet the applicable eligibility requirements for fhc status (including capital and management requirements and that the bank maintain at least a satisfactory cra rating) may result in restrictions on certain activities of the bancorp, including the commencement of new activities and mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. fifth third and other financial institutions are subject to scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, liquidity and capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, aml/bsa, consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises. in this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect fifth third's ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith. the government enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. in some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial institution. finally, as part of fifth third's regular examination process, the bancorp and the bank's respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect fifth third's ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on fifth third's business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed. fifth third could face serious negative consequences if its third-party service providers, business partners or investments fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. fifth third is expected to oversee the legal and regulatory compliance of its business endeavors, including those performed by third-party service providers, business partners, other vendors and certain companies in which fifth third has invested. legal authorities and regulators could hold fifth third responsible for failures by these parties to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. these failures could expose fifth third to significant litigation or regulatory action that could limit its activities or impose significant fines or other financial losses. additionally, fifth third could be subject to significant litigation from consumers or other parties harmed by these failures and could suffer significant losses of business and revenue, as well as reputational harm as a result of these failures. 31 fifth third bancorp table of contents as a regulated entity, the bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. as a bhc and an fhc, the bancorp is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. the bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the frb which can change depending upon general economic conditions and the bancorp's particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the bancorp's ability to expand or maintain present business levels. failure by the bank to meet applicable capital requirements could subject it to a variety of enforcement actions available to the federal regulatory authorities. these include limitations on the ability of the bancorp to pay dividends and/or repurchase shares, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, loss of fhc status and the termination of deposit insurance by the fdic. the bancorp's ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. the bancorp's ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and expectations. as part of ccar, the bancorp's capital plan is generally subject to an annual assessment by the frb, and the frb may object to the bancorp's capital plan if the bancorp does not demonstrate an ability to maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon. if the frb objects to the bancorp's capital plan, it would be subject to limitations on its ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing stock. for more information, refer to regulation and supervision dividends. regulation of fifth third by the commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ) imposes additional operational and compliance costs. the cftc and sec are primarily responsible for regulation of the u.s. derivatives markets. while most of the provisions related to derivatives markets are now in effect, several additional requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, including the cftc and the sec. as a result of this regulatory regime, the cftc has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of fifth third's businesses. in 2014, the bank provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the cftc and became subject to certain requirements, including real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest) and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of certain swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. fifth third's derivatives activity is also subject to the u.s. banking regulators' margin and segregation requirements for uncleared swaps. these requirements collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on fifth third and introduce additional legal risk, including as a result of antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action. these rules raise the costs and liquidity burden associated with fifth third's derivatives activities and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, refer to regulation and supervision derivatives. deposit insurance premiums levied against the bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks increases. the fdic maintains a dif to protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. the dif is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including the bank. future deposit premiums paid by the bank depend on fdic rules, which are subject to change, the level of the dif and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. the bank may be required to pay significantly higher fdic premiums if market developments change such that the dif balance is reduced or the fdic changes its rules to require higher premiums. if an orderly liquidation of a systemically important bhc or non-bank financial company were triggered, fifth third could face assessments for the orderly liquidation fund. dodd-frank created authority for the orderly liquidation of systemically important bhcs and non-bank financial companies and is based on the fdic's bank resolution model. the secretary of the u.s. treasury may trigger liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the president of the united states and after receiving a recommendation from the board of the fdic and the frb upon a two-thirds vote. liquidation proceedings will be funded by the orderly liquidation fund established under dodd-frank, which will borrow from the u.s. treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as fifth third. any such assessments may adversely affect fifth third's business, financial condition or results of operations. market risks the replacement of libor could adversely affect fifth third's revenue or expenses and the value of those assets or obligations. libor and certain other benchmarks are the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, publicly announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. the announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after 2021. while there is no consensus on what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, a group of large banks, the alternative reference rate committee ( arrc ), selected and the federal reserve bank of new york started in may 2018 to publish the secured overnight finance rate ( sofr ) as an alternative to libor. sofr is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by treasury securities, given the depth and robustness of the u.s. treasury repurchase market. furthermore, the bank of england has commenced publication of a reformed sterling overnight index average ( sonia ), comprised of a broader set of overnight sterling money market transactions, as of april 23, 2018. the sonia has been recommended as the alternative to sterling libor by the working group on sterling risk-free reference rates. at this time, it is impossible to predict whether sofr and sonia will become accepted alternatives to libor. 32 fifth third bancorp table of contents the market transition away from libor to an alternative reference rate, including sofr or sonia, is complex and could have a range of adverse effects on fifth third's business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular, any such transition could: adversely affect the interest rates paid or received on, and the revenue and expenses associated with, the bancorp's floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given libor's role in determining market interest rates globally; adversely affect the value of the bancorp's floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments tied to libor rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given libor's role in determining market interest rates globally; prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of the bancorp's preparation and readiness for the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate; result in disputes, litigation or other actions with counterparties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in libor-based securities; and require the transition to or development of appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition the bancorp's risk management processes from libor-based products to those based on the applicable alternative pricing benchmark, such as sofr or reformed sonia. the manner and impact of this transition, as well as the effect of these developments on fifth third's funding costs, loan and investment and trading securities portfolios, asset-liability management, and business, is uncertain. weakness in the u.s. economy, including within fifth third's geographic footprint, has adversely affected fifth third in the past and may adversely affect fifth third in the future. if the strength of the u.s. economy in general or the strength of the local economies in which fifth third conducts operations declines, this could result in, among other things, a decreased demand for fifth third's products and services, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on fifth third's loan portfolio and alll and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. these factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses in future periods, which could materially adversely affect fifth third's financial condition and results of operations. global political and economic uncertainties and changes may adversely affect fifth third. global financial markets, including the united states, face political and economic uncertainties that may delay investment and hamper economic activity. international events such as trade disputes, separatist movements, leadership changes and political and military conflicts could adversely affect global financial activity and markets and could negatively affect the u.s. economy. additionally, the frb and other major central banks have begun the process of removing or reducing monetary accommodation, increasing the risk of recession and may also negatively impact asset values and credit spreads that were impacted by extraordinary monetary stimulus. these potential negative effects on financial markets and economic activity could lead to reduced revenues, increased costs, increased credit risks and volatile markets, and could negatively impact fifth third's businesses, results of operations and financial condition. changes in interest rates could affect fifth third's income and cash flows. fifth third's income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. these rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond fifth third's control, including general economic conditions in the u.s. or abroad and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the frb). changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding as well as customers' ability to repay loans. the impact of these changes may be magnified if fifth third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect fifth third, its customers and its shareholders. changes and trends in the capital markets may affect fifth third's income and cash flows. fifth third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages investment positions on behalf of its customers. these investment positions include derivative financial instruments. the revenues and profits fifth third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent on market prices. market changes and trends may result in a decline in wealth and asset management revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact fifth third. losses on behalf of its customers could expose fifth third to reputational issues, litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those clients and customers. additionally, losses in fifth third's trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect fifth third's income, cash flows and funding costs. fifth third's stock price is volatile. fifth third's stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. these factors include, without limitation: actual or anticipated variations in earnings; changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; fifth third's announcements of developments related to its businesses; operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; actions by government regulators and changes in the regulatory regime; new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors; news reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry; u.s. and global economic conditions; natural disasters; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism, military conflicts and withdrawal from the eu by the u.k. or other eu members. 33 fifth third bancorp table of contents the price for shares of fifth third's common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to fifth third's performance. general market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of fifth third's common stock and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of future market prices. fifth third's mortgage banking net revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter. fifth third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. when rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue fifth third receives from loan originations. at the same time, revenue from mortgage servicing rights ( msr ) can increase through increases in fair value. when rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of msrs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a natural hedge, the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. for example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential msrs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the msrs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. it is also possible that even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the msrs value caused by the lower rates. fifth third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. fifth third generally does not hedge all of its risks and the fact that fifth third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean fifth third will be successful. hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. fifth third may use hedging instruments tied to u.s. treasury rates, libor or eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. fifth third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. there may be periods where fifth third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. legal risks fifth third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and litigation, regulatory or other enforcement proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences. fifth third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective customers and businesses, as well as their sales practices, data security, product offerings, compensation practices and other compliance issues. also, a violation of law or regulation by another financial institution may give rise to an inquiry or investigation by regulators or other authorities of the same or similar practices by fifth third. in addition, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the u.s. means that a single event or topic may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings. furthermore , fifth third and certain of its directors and officers have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to fifth third's business and activities, as well as regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. enforcement authorities may seek admissions of wrongdoing and, in some cases, criminal pleas as part of the resolutions of matters and any such resolution of a matter involving fifth third which could lead to increased exposure to private litigation, could adversely affect fifth third's reputation and could result in limitations on fifth third's ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. each of the matters described above may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of fifth third's sec filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. in addition, responding to information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, could be time-consuming and expensive. like other large financial institutions and companies, fifth third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or other enforcement action against fifth third could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business. the outcome of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate. although fifth third establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, fifth third does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. in addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to fifth third from the legal proceedings in question. thus, fifth third's ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect fifth third's results of operations. in addition, there has been a trend of public settlements with governmental agencies that may adversely affect other financial institutions, to the extent such settlements are used as a template for future settlements. the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties. for further information on specific legal and regulatory proceedings, refer to note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. fifth third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties. fifth third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including government-sponsored enterprises ( gse ) and other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. fifth third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a specified period (usually 60 days or less) after fifth third receives notice of the breach. 34 fifth third bancorp table of contents contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the gses include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. if economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and fifth third's success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, fifth third could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve. strategic risks if fifth third does not respond to intense competition and rapid changes in the financial services industry or otherwise adapt to changing customer preferences, its financial performance may suffer. fifth third's ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. in addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, fifth third's competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and insurance companies as well as large retailers who seek to offer one-stop financial services in addition to other products and services desired by consumers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. many of these other firms may be significantly larger than fifth third and may have access to customers and financial resources that are beyond fifth third's capability. fifth third competes with these firms with respect to capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation, talent and price. this increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in customer preferences, regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. rapidly changing technology and consumer preferences may require fifth third to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services in order to compete and meet customer demands. fifth third may not be able to do so or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. as a result, fifth third's ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and its business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. fifth third may make strategic investments and may expand an existing line of business or enter into new lines of business to remain competitive. if fifth third's chosen strategies are not appropriate to allow fifth third to effectively compete or fifth third does not execute them in an appropriate or timely manner, fifth third's business and results may suffer. additionally, these strategies, products and lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen risks and may not generate the expected results or returns, which could adversely affect fifth third's results of operations or future growth prospects and cause fifth third to fail to meet its stated goals and expectations. changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact fifth third's investments in its bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel. fifth third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,149 full-service banking centers and 25 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers of which 9 properties are developed or in the process of being developed as branches, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. advances in technology such as e-commerce, telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch self-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences for these other methods of accessing fifth third's products and services, could affect the value of fifth third's branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce its remaining branches and work force. further advances in technology and/or changes in customer preferences could have additional changes in fifth third's retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. these actions could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail distribution channel. difficulties in identifying suitable opportunities or combining the operations of acquired entities or assets with fifth third's own operations or assessing the effectiveness of businesses in which we make strategic investments or with which we enter into strategic contractual relationships may prevent fifth third from achieving the expected benefits from these acquisitions, investments or relationships. inherent uncertainties exist when assessing, acquiring or integrating the operations of another business or investment or relationship opportunity. fifth third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies relevant to an acquisition or strategic relationship. in addition, the markets and industries in which fifth third and its potential acquisition and investment targets operate are highly competitive. acquisition or investment targets may lose customers or otherwise perform poorly or unprofitably, or in the case of an acquired business or strategic relationship, cause fifth third to lose customers or perform poorly or unprofitably. future acquisition and investment activities and efforts to monitor newly acquired businesses or reap the benefits of a new strategic relationship may require fifth third to devote substantial time and resources and may cause these acquisitions, investments and relationships to be unprofitable or cause fifth third to be unable to pursue other business opportunities. after completing an acquisition, fifth third may find that certain material information was not adequately disclosed during the due diligence process or that certain items were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. fifth third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. for example, fifth third could experience higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. additionally, acquired companies or businesses may increase fifth third's risk of regulatory action or restrictions related to the operations of the acquired business. future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders' ownership of fifth third and may cause fifth third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. future business acquisitions could be material to fifth third and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders' ownership interests. acquisitions also could require fifth third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. in those events, fifth third could become more susceptible to economic downturns, dislocations in capital markets and competitive pressures. 35 fifth third bancorp table of contents fifth third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses or investments. should it determine to sell such a business or investment, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders' equity commensurate with desirable levels. moreover, if fifth third sold such businesses or investments, the loss of income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth. fifth third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as applicable, several non-strategic businesses, investments and other assets that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses or, in the future, may no longer be aligned with fifth third's strategic plans or regulatory expectations. if fifth third were to sell one or more of its businesses or investments, it would be subject to market forces that may affect the timing or pricing of such sale or result in an unsuccessful sale. if fifth third were to complete the sale of any of its businesses, investments and/or interests in third parties, it would lose the income from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth. additionally, fifth third may encounter difficulties in separating the operations of any businesses it sells, which may affect its business or results of operations. general business risks changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact fifth third's reported earnings and financial condition. the accounting standard setters, including the fasb, the sec and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of fifth third's consolidated financial statements. for example, in june 2016, the fasb issued a new current expected credit loss rule, cecl, which will require banks to record, at the time of origination, credit losses expected throughout the life of the asset portfolio on loans and held-to-maturity securities, as opposed to the current practice of recording losses when it is probable that a loss event has occurred. for additional information, refer to note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how fifth third records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, fifth third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of fifth third's prior period financial statements. fifth third uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results. fifth third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs and other purposes. the models used may not accurately account for all variables, may fail to predict outcomes accurately, and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. as a result of these potential failures, fifth third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures. also, information fifth third provides to the public or to its regulators based on models could be inaccurate or misleading due to inadequate design or implementation, for example. decisions that its regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to its shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the models used to generate the relevant information are unreliable or inadequate. the preparation of financial statements requires fifth third to make subjective determinations and use estimates that may vary from actual results and materially impact its results of operations or financial position. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. if new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change to previously announced financial results. refer to the critical accounting policies section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation for more information regarding management's significant estimates. weather-related events, other natural disasters, or health emergencies may have an effect on the performance of fifth third's loan portfolios, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations. fifth third's footprint stretches from the upper midwestern to lower southeastern regions of the united states and it has offices in many other areas of the country. some of these regions have experienced weather events including hurricanes, tornadoes, fires and other natural disasters. the nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. if large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers' ability to repay their loans. additionally, the impact of widespread health emergencies may adversely impact fifth third's results of operations, such as the potential impact from the recent outbreak of the coronavirus, which originated in wuhan, hubei province, china but has now spread to other countries. if its borrowers are adversely affected, or if the virus leads to a widespread health emergency that impacts fifth third employees, vendors or economic growth generally, fifth third's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, despite having no direct operations in china. societal responses to climate change could adversely affect fifth third's business and performance, including indirectly through impacts on fifth third's customers. concerns over the long-term impacts of climate change have led and may continue to lead to governmental efforts around the world to mitigate those impacts. consumers and businesses also may change their behavior on their own as a result of these concerns. fifth third and its customers will need to respond to new laws and regulations, as well as consumer and business preferences resulting from climate change concerns. fifth third and its customers may face cost increases, asset value reductions, operating process changes, and the like. the impact on fifth third's customers will likely vary depending on their specific attributes, including reliance on or role in carbon intensive activities. fifth third could experience a drop in demand for fifth third's products and services, particularly in certain sectors. in addition, fifth third could face reductions in creditworthiness on the part of some customers or in the value of assets securing loans. fifth third's efforts to take these risks into account in making lending and other decisions, including by increasing business relationships with climate-friendly companies, may not be effective in protecting fifth third from the negative impact of new laws and regulations or changes in consumer or business behavior. fifth third is exposed to reputational risk. fifth third's actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as certain sales and lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, behavior of employees, association with particular customers, business partners, investments or vendors, as well as developments from any of the other risks described above, may result in negative public opinion and may damage fifth third's reputation. actions taken by government regulators, shareholder activists and community organizations may also damage fifth third's reputation. 36 fifth third bancorp table of contents additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the advent and expansion of social media facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation. though fifth third monitors social media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information that could damage fifth third's reputation. negative public opinion can adversely affect fifth third's ability to attract and keep customers and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and regulatory action. social activists are increasingly targeting financial firms with public criticism for their relationships with clients that are engaged in certain sensitive industries, including businesses whose products are or are perceived to be harmful to health or the social good. activist criticism of fifth third's relationships with clients in sensitive industries could potentially engender dissatisfaction among clients, customers, investors and employees with how fifth third addresses social concerns through business activities which could negatively affect our reputation. potential noncompliance with evolving federal and state laws governing cannabis-related businesses (crbs) could subject us to liabilities. while 44 states have legalized some form of marijuana, it remains a class 1 controlled substance under federal law. hemp is no longer classified as a class 1 controlled substance under federal law; however, the regulatory scheme governing hemp has not been fully developed. further, the naked eye cannot distinguish between legal hemp and illegal marijuana under federal law. there are a number of states where fifth third operates with laws permitting medicinal or recreational marijuana, which increases the probability of individuals or entities using bank products or services to sell, distribute, cultivate, manufacture or profit from marijuana. this, and the divergence and continued changes in laws governing crbs results in challenges to us to maintain compliance with them, particularly in connection with our commercial and consumer lending and capital markets businesses. while we monitor regulatory developments in this area to avoid noncompliance, we cannot assure you that we will be at all times fully compliant with crb-related laws, which could result in significant fines, penalties or other losses. risks related to merger with mb financial, inc. fifth third may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger and may face increased risks as a result of it. inherent uncertainties exist when assessing, acquiring, or integrating the operations of another business or investment or relationship opportunity. fifth third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in its acquisition of mb financial, inc. ( mb financial ). additionally, fifth third may face additional risks as a result of the acquisition. the success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend on, among other things, fifth third's ability to continue to combine the businesses of fifth third and mb financial in a manner that permits growth opportunities, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies, and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of fifth third or mb financial or result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. if fifth third is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. employee attrition could delay or disrupt the integration process. it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of fifth third's or mb financial's ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of fifth third or mb financial to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. fifth third may find that certain material information was not adequately disclosed during the due diligence process or that certain items were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. fifth third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition and may face increased risks pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. for example, fifth third could experience greater credit risk and higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. additionally, the acquisition may increase fifth third's compliance and legal risks including increased litigation or regulatory actions such as fines or restrictions related to the business practices or operations of the acquired business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 104 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk management section of item 7 of this report on pages 93- 98 and is incorporated herein by reference.