quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by the board of directors, governing our funding, investments, and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor aggregate risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there have been no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2003 as compared to december 31, 2002. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements denominated in foreign currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. 37 table of contents at december 31, 2003 and december 31, 2002, forward currency contracts against the u.s. dollar were both purchased (with notional amounts of $64 million and $39 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $60 million and $25 million, respectively). based on the year-end 2003 and 2002 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create a loss valued at $0.4 million and $1.3 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. at december 31, 2003 and december 31, 2002, forward currency contracts against the euro were both purchased (with notional amounts of $178 million and $199 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $8 million at december 31, 2002). there were no forward currency contracts sold against the euro at december 31, 2003. based on the year-end 2003 and 2002 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the euro is estimated to create a loss valued at $16 million and $17 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. our settlement activities may be subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the extent that the timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions is typically one business day and by limiting the supported settlement currencies to usd or one of seventeen other stable transaction currencies. the remaining 144 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. interest rate risk our interest sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. they are rated aa or above and primarily consist of fixed rate short and medium-term notes. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. based on the net present value of expected future cash flows, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in fair value changes and an unrealized loss recorded in other comprehensive income of $17 million and $15 million for 2003 and 2002, respectively. our held-to-maturity investments are considered non-trading securities and would not be subject to interest rate movements. our interest rate sensitive liabilities consist of subordinated debt securities. a 100 basis point decrease in rates would result in a fair value loss of $12 million and $13 million for december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included herein. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, we had various credit facilities to provide liquidity in the event of material member settlement failures, settlement service operations and other operational needs. these credit facilities have variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in each agreement. there were no amounts outstanding at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively under these credit facilities. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included herein. equity price risk we own trading securities, which are comprised of equity securities selected to offset obligations in connection with an executive compensation plan. the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market value would result in a loss of $3 million for the years ended december 31, 2003 and 2002. since these securities are part of a deferred executive compensation plan and to the extent the plan remains in a net appreciation position; an offsetting gain would be recorded in general and administrative expense. 38 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by the board of directors, governing our funding, investments, and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there have been no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2004 as compared to december 31, 2003. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements denominated in foreign currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, forward currency contracts against the u.s. dollar were both purchased (with notional amounts of $41 million and $64 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $20 million and $60 million, respectively). based on the year-end 2004 and 2003 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create a loss valued at $2.0 million and $0.4 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 38 table of contents at december 31, 2004 and 2003, forward currency contracts against the euro were purchased (with notional amounts of $128 million and $178 million, respectively). based on the year-end 2004 and 2003 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the euro is estimated to create a loss valued at $11 million and $16 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the extent that the timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions is typically one business day and by limiting the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of seventeen other stable transaction currencies. the remaining 143 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. they are rated aa or above and primarily consist of fixed rate short and medium-term instruments. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. based on the net present value of expected future cash flows, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in fair value changes and an unrealized loss recorded in other comprehensive income of $17 million for each of 2004 and 2003, respectively. our held-to-maturity investments are not be subject to interest rate movements. our interest rate sensitive liabilities consist of subordinated debt securities. a 100 basis point decrease in rates would result in a fair value loss of $9 million and $12 million for december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements herein. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, we had various credit facilities to provide liquidity in the event of material member settlement failures, settlement service operations and other operational needs. these credit facilities have variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in each agreement. there were no amounts outstanding at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, under these credit facilities. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements herein. equity price risk we own trading securities, which are comprised of equity securities selected to offset obligations in connection with an executive compensation plan. the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market value would result in a loss of $3 million in each of the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. to the extent the executive compensation plan remains in a net appreciation position, an offsetting gain would be recorded in general and administrative expense. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 23 the global payments industry we operate in the global payments industry, which consists of all forms of payment including: paper-based payments - cash, personal checks, money orders, official checks, travelers cheques and other paper-based means of transferring value; card-based payments - credit cards, charge cards, debit and deferred debit cards (including cash access or automated teller machine ( atm ) cards), prepaid cards and other types of cards; contactless, mobile and web-based payments - contactless payments, electronic payments through mobile phones and other handheld devices using a variety of applications, and e-commerce transactions on the internet and through web browsers; and other electronic payments - wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments and automated clearing house payments, among others. the most common card-based forms of payment are general purpose cards, which are payment cards carrying logos that permit widespread usage of the cards within countries, regions or around the world. general purpose cards have different attributes depending on the type of accounts to which they are linked: credit or charge cards typically access a credit account that either requires payment of the full balance within a specified period (a charge card) or that permits the cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit account (a credit card); debit cards typically access a deposit account or other account with accessible funds maintained by the cardholder; and prepaid cards typically access previously-funded monetary value. the primary general purpose card brands include mastercard, visa , american express , jcb , diners club , unionpay and discover . these brands, including mastercard, have come to be associated with a variety of forms of payment in the united states and other markets around the world, including (depending on the brand) credit, charge, debit and prepaid cards. regional and domestic/local debit brands that require a personal identification number ( pin ) for verification are the primary brands in many countries. in these markets, issuers have historically relied on the maestro and cirrus brands (and other brands) to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of the overall number of transactions. in addition to general purpose cards, private label cards comprise a portion of all card-based forms of payment. typically, private label cards are credit cards issued by, or on behalf of, a merchant (such as a department store or gasoline retailer) and can be used only at that merchant's locations. payment services and solutions we provide transaction processing and other payment-related services as well as a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers to design, package and implement products and programs targeted to the specific needs of their customers. we work with customers to provide customized solutions, as well as more general solutions. our payment solutions are built upon our expertise in payment programs, product development, payment processing technology, payment security, consulting and information services and marketing. we also manage and promote our brands for the benefit of all customers through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. 4 table of contents transaction processing on the mastercard worldwide network introduction. we operate the mastercard worldwide network, our proprietary, global payments network that links issuers and acquirers around the globe to facilitate the processing of transactions and, through them, permits mastercard cardholders to use their cards and other payment devices at millions of merchants worldwide. we process transactions through our network for financial institutions and other entities that are our customers, in more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories. typical transaction . a typical transaction processed over the mastercard worldwide network involves four participants in addition to us: cardholder, merchant, issuer (the cardholder's financial institution) and acquirer (the merchant's financial institution). the following diagram depicts a typical point-of-interaction card transaction: in a typical transaction, a cardholder (a) purchases goods or services from a merchant (b) using a card or other payment device. after the transaction is authorized by the issuer (d) using our network, the issuer pays the acquirer (c) an amount equal to the value of the transaction, minus the interchange fee (described below), and posts the transaction to the cardholder's account. the acquirer pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount (referred to as the merchant discount ), to the merchant. the merchant discount, among other things, takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee. we generally guarantee the payment of transactions using mastercard-branded products and certain transactions using cirrus and maestro-branded products between issuers and acquirers. interchange fees. the interchange fee is equal to the difference between the amount of the payment transaction (the transaction amount) and the amount the issuer pays the acquirer (the settlement amount). interchange fees represent a sharing of a portion of payment system costs among the customers participating in our four-party payment card system. as such, interchange fees are a key factor in balancing the costs consumers pay and the costs merchants pay. we do not earn revenues from interchange fees. generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and paid to issuers (or netted by issuers against amounts paid to acquirers) to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants. in some circumstances, such as cash withdrawal transactions, this situation is reversed and interchange fees are paid by issuers to acquirers. we establish default interchange fees that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer. we administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process. interchange fees can be a significant component of the merchant discount, and therefore of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. these fees are currently subject to regulatory, legislative and/or legal challenges in a number of jurisdictions. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a. merchant discount. the merchant discount is established by the acquirer to cover its costs of participating in the four-party system and generally to provide for a profit margin with respect to services rendered to the merchant. the discount takes into 5 table of contents consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer, and the balance of the discount consists of fees established by the acquirer and paid by the merchant for certain of the acquirer's services to the merchant. additional fees and economic considerations. among the parties in a four-party system, various types of fees may be charged to different constituents for various services. for example, acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount. issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. as described below, we charge issuers and acquirers transaction-based and related fees for the transaction processing and related services we provide them. in a four-party payment system, the economics of a payment transaction relative to mastercard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction or cash withdrawal, and whether the transaction is processed over our network or a third-party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an on-us transaction). authentication . generally, transactions processed over our network can be authenticated at the point of interaction and across the processing value chain. a typical transaction processed over our network can be authenticated in several ways (depending on the type of card or device being used): signature transactions that typically require a cardholder to sign a sales receipt as the primary means of validation at the point of interaction (other than circumstances, such as with respect to low value purchases, where a signature is not necessary), pin-based transactions that require the cardholder to use a pin for verification which can be validated by the issuer at their processing site and transactions using chip-enabled cards and point of interaction devices which allow for automatic authentication between the card and device (as well as, depending on the card or device, signature or pin authentication). in addition, some payment cards and devices are equipped with an rfid (radio frequency identification) microchip, which provides an advanced authentication technique, and technology which allows contactless payments requiring neither signature nor pin under established maximum transaction amounts. mastercard worldwide network architecture and operations . we believe the architecture of the mastercard worldwide network is unique, featuring a globally integrated structure that provides scalability for our customers and enables them to expand into regional and global markets. our network also features an intelligent architecture that enables it to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures-distributed (peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke). transactions that require fast, reliable processing, such as those submitted using a mastercard paypass -enabled device in a tollway, use the network's distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred. transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point-of-sale, or customization of transaction data for unique consumer-spending controls, use the network's centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction. through the unique architecture of our network, we are able to connect all parties with respect to payments transactions regardless of whether the transaction is occurring at a traditional physical location, at an atm, on the internet or through a mobile device, enabling electronic commerce. the network typically operates at under 80% capacity and has the capacity to handle more than 160 million transactions per hour with an average network response time of 130 milliseconds. the network can also substantially scale capacity to meet demand. our transaction processing services are available 24 hours per day, every day of the year. our global payment network provides multiple levels of back-up protection and related continuity procedures should the issuer, acquirer or payment network experience a service interruption. moreover, the network features multiple layers of protection against hacking or other cybersecurity attacks. we supplement this protection with mitigation efforts to strengthen our protection against such threats, both in terms of operability of the network and protection of the information transmitted through the network. to date, we have consistently maintained availability of our global processing systems more than 99.9% of the time. processing capabilities. transaction switching - authorization, clearing and settlement. mastercard provides transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement) through the mastercard worldwide network. 6 table of contents authorization . authorization refers to the process by which a transaction is routed to the issuer for approval and then a decision whether or not to approve the transaction is made by the issuer or, in certain circumstances such as when the issuer's systems are unavailable or cannot be contacted, by mastercard or others on behalf of the issuer in accordance with either the issuer's instructions or applicable rules (also known as "stand-in"). our standards, which may vary across regions, establish the circumstances under which merchants and acquirers must seek authorization of transactions. clearing . clearing refers to the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a transaction has been successfully conducted at the point of interaction. mastercard clears transactions among customers through our central and regional processing systems. mastercard clearing solutions can be managed with minimal system development, which has enabled us to accelerate our customers' ability to develop customized programs and services. settlement . once transactions have been authorized and cleared, mastercard helps to settle the transactions by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. once clearing is completed, a daily reconciliation is provided to each customer involved in settlement, detailing the net amounts by clearing cycle and a final settlement position. the actual exchange of funds takes place between a settlement bank, designated by the customer and approved by mastercard, and a settlement bank chosen by mastercard. customer settlement occurs in u.s. dollars or in a limited number of other currencies in accordance with our established rules. cross-border and domestic processing. the mastercard worldwide network provides our customers with a flexible structure that enables them to support processing across regions and for domestic markets. the network processes transactions throughout the world on our branded products where the merchant country and cardholder country are different (cross-border transactions). mastercard processes transactions denominated in more than 150 currencies through our global system, providing cardholders with the ability to utilize, and merchants to accept, mastercard cards and other payment devices across multiple country borders. for example, we may process a transaction in a merchant's local currency; however the charge for the transaction would appear on the cardholder's statement in the cardholder's home currency. mastercard also provides domestic (or intra-country) transaction processing services to customers in every region of the world, which allow customers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants throughout a particular country. we process most of the cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and process the majority of mastercard-branded domestic transactions in the united states, united kingdom, canada, brazil and a select number of other smaller countries. outside of these countries, most intra-country (as opposed to cross-border) transaction activity conducted with our branded payment products is authorized, cleared and/or settled by our customers or other processors without the involvement of the mastercard worldwide network. we continue to invest in our network and build relationships to expand opportunities for domestic transaction processing. in particular, the single european payment area ( sepa ) initiative creates an open and competitive market in many european countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. as a result, in addition to cross-border transactions, mastercard now processes some domestic debit transactions in nearly every sepa country. extended processing capabilities. in addition to transaction switching, mastercard continually evaluates and invests in ways to strategically extend our processing capabilities in the payment value chain by seeking to provide our customers with an expanded suite of payment processing solutions that meet the unique processing needs of their markets. examples include: mastercard integrated processing solutions (ips). mastercard integrated processing solutions ( ips ) is a debit and prepaid issuer processing platform designed to provide medium to large global issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. through a single processing platform, ips can, among other things, authorize debit and prepaid transactions, assist issuers in managing risk using fraud detection tools, manage an issuer's card base, and manage and monitor an issuer's atms. the proprietary mastercard total portfolio view provides a user-friendly customer interface to ips, delivering aggregate cardholder intelligence across accounts and product lines to provide our customers with a view of information that can help them customize their products and programs. we continue to develop opportunities to further enhance our ips offerings and global presence. internet payment gateways . mastercard provides e-commerce processing solutions through internet payment gateways, which are interfaces between the merchant and its acquirer as a transaction moves to a payments network. our gateways include our mastercard internet gateway service (migs), which provides gateway 7 table of contents infrastructure in asia pacific, and datacash , a payment service provider with operations in europe and brazil. datacash offers a single interface that provides e-commerce merchants with the ability to process secure payments across the world, and develops and provides outsourced electronic payments solutions, fraud prevention, alternative payment options, and other solutions. strategic alliances . we have invested in strategic alliances to pursue opportunities in prepaid and acquirer and third-party processing both through joint ventures and minority investments. these alliances include: (1) prepay solutions, a joint venture with edenred (previously named accor services) which supports prepaid processing in europe, (2) strategic payment services, which provides acquirer processing in asia pacific, (3) electracard services, which provides third-party processing services and software, as well as switching solutions, in asia pacific, the middle east and africa, (4) trevica, which provides third-party issuer processing services in poland and other central and eastern european markets and (5) mobile payment solutions ( mps ), which provides complete processing solutions for mobile payments around the globe. mastercard programs and solutions our principal payment programs and solutions, which are facilitated through our brands, include consumer credit and charge, debit and prepaid programs, commercial payment solutions and emerging payments solutions. our issuer customers determine the competitive features for the cards and other products issued under our programs, including interest rates and fees. we determine other aspects of our programs-such as required services and the marketing strategy-in order to help ensure consistency in connection with these programs. consumer credit and charge. mastercard offers a number of consumer credit and charge programs that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. for the year ended december 31, 2011, our consumer credit and charge programs generated approximately $1.8 trillion in gdv globally, representing 56% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2011, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 672 million consumer credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 3.7% increase from december 31, 2010. united states . we offer customized programs to customers in the united states to address specific consumer segments. our consumer credit programs include standard (general purpose cards targeted to consumers with basic credit card needs), gold and platinum (cards featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying level of enhanced services) and world and world elite mastercard (cards offered to affluent consumers which feature a wider range of enhanced services). regions outside of the united states. mastercard makes available to customers outside of the united states a variety of consumer card programs in selected markets throughout the world. examples of such programs include mastercard electronic cards (which offer additional control and risk management features designed to curb fraud and control exposure in high risk markets) and cards targeted to affluent consumers (such as platinum mastercard and mastercard black cards in latin america, world and world elite mastercard cards in europe and canada and platinum and world mastercard cards in asia pacific, middle east and africa ( apmea )). general services. all mastercard credit cards include services, such as lost/stolen card reporting, emergency card replacement and emergency cash advance, which are generally arranged by mastercard and are provided through third-party service providers. debit. mastercard supports a range of payment solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds in deposit accounts and other accounts. our debit and deposit access programs may be branded with the mastercard, maestro and/or cirrus logos, and can be used to obtain cash in bank branches or at atms. in addition, mastercard and maestro-branded debit products may be used to make purchases or obtain cash back at the point of sale. debit programs we offer include maestro and gold maestro, as well as standard, gold, platinum, premium and world debit mastercard programs. mastercard-branded debit card. mastercard-branded debit programs issue cards which include functionality for signature authenticated transactions, as well as pin-based functionality. for the year ended december 31, 2011, our mastercard-branded debit programs generated approximately $1.2 trillion in gdv globally, representing 36% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2011, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 354 million debit cards worldwide, representing 20.1% growth from december 31, 2010. mastercard-branded debit card programs are offered in the united states, and are also offered as a complement to existing maestro-branded debit programs. 8 table of contents maestro-branded debit card. maestro is our global pin-based debit program, and is the only pin-based solution that operates globally. some maestro cards also feature signature functionality. as of december 31, 2011, the maestro brand mark appeared on approximately 752 million cards worldwide, representing 14.8% growth from december 31, 2010. as of december 31, 2011, maestro was accepted for purchases at more than 14.1 million merchant locations globally. our maestro brand has a leading position among pin-based debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in europe. the strong presence of maestro in europe positions us well as the sepa initiative creates a more open and competitive payment market in many european countries that had been previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. the global acceptance of maestro contributes to the growth of our debit business and adds value to the services that we provide to our customers. mastercard global atm solutions. cirrus is our primary global cash access brand. any debit, credit or atm-accessible prepaid card bearing the mastercard, maestro or cirrus logos could have had access to cash and account information at approximately 1.9 million participating atms around the world as of december 31, 2011. mastercard global atm solutions provides domestic (in-country) and cross-border access to cards allowing for varied types of transactions, including cash withdrawal (deposit accounts), cash advance (credit accounts), cash drawdown (prepaid accounts), balance inquiries, account transfers and deposits at atms that participate in the mastercard worldwide network. prepaid. prepaid programs involve a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. holders access funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card which may leverage the paypass functionality or other payment devices, such as mobile devices. mastercard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands. mastercard provides processing services (including transaction switching) in support of either magnetic stripe or chip-enabled prepaid card programs. mastercard provides and customizes programs to meet unique commercial and consumer needs in all prepaid segments, including programs such as general purpose reloadable, gift, employee benefit, payroll, travel, incentive and government disbursement programs. in particular, we focus on three categories: government, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in government programs such as social security payments, unemployment benefits and others; corporate, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in business applications such as payroll, health savings accounts and others; and consumer reloadable, which includes programs to address the payment needs of individuals without formal banking relationships, individuals who are not traditional users of credit or debit cards or individuals who want to segment funds for security or convenience purposes, such as travel. mastercard also provides prepaid card program management services through access prepaid worldwide ( access ). access was formed as a result of mastercard acquiring the prepaid card program management operations of travelex holding ltd. in april 2011. through access, mastercard manages and delivers consumer and corporate prepaid travel cards to business partners around the world, including financial institutions, retailers, travel agents and foreign exchange bureaus. combined with mastercard's existing processing assets (such as ips) and other strategic alliances, these services augment and support partners and issuers of prepaid cards around the world, with a focus outside of the united states. access enables mastercard to offer end-to-end prepaid solutions encompassing branded switching, issuer processing and program management services, primarily focused on the travel sector. commercial payment solutions. mastercard offers commercial payment solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and government entities to streamline their procurement and payment processes, manage information and expenses and reduce administrative costs. in the year ended december 31, 2011, our commercial credit and charge programs generated approximately $251 billion in gdv globally, representing approximately 8% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2011, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 33 million commercial credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 10.8% increase from december 31, 2010. we offer various corporate payment programs and value-added services, including corporate cards, corporate premium cards, corporate purchasing cards and fleet cards (as well as the mastercard corporate multi card , which combines the functionality of one or more of these cards) that allow corporations to manage travel and entertainment expenses and provide corporations with additional transactional detail. among the platforms mastercard provides is smartdata, a mastercard-powered tool which provides information reporting and expense management capabilities. we also offer government entities a variety of payment programs that are similar to the procurement, travel, purchasing, fleet and multi card programs offered to corporations. the mastercard businesscard , the debit mastercard businesscard , 9 table of contents the world mastercard for business , the world elite mastercard for business , small business controller and professional debit and credit cards are targeted at the small-business segment, offering business owners the ability to gain access to working capital, to extend payments and to separate business expenses from personal expenses. emerging payments solutions and innovation. mastercard focuses on innovation to enhance our current programs and extend our products and services to new customers (including merchants, telecommunications companies and government entities) and into new geographies. supporting this innovation is mastercard labs, a global innovation group dedicated to developing new and innovative products and solutions for mastercard, our customers and our cardholders. mastercard labs enables us to take a portfolio approach to research and development by incubating new product concepts, building prototypes and running pilots. mastercard labs is designed for a rapid evaluation process, through which innovations either rapidly advance into mastercard's new product development process or are quickly disregarded. our focus in emerging payments includes: e-commerce . e-commerce involves the purchase and sale of goods over the internet. our initiatives focus on: the development of e-commerce capability through internet payment gateways (including datacash and migs) to support growth in the e-commerce area, the development of programs and services intended to drive gdv and transactions and to improve the consumer experience, including: (1) the development of openapi, our application programming interface through which we can more easily integrate with our customers to deliver our products and solutions; and (2) expanding the use of mastercard-branded cards for e-commerce transactions, including by enabling maestro cards for this purpose, and the development of tools to help customers prevent fraud over the internet. we have entered into a strategic relationship with intel corporation to provide consumers and merchants enhanced security and convenience with e-commerce shopping by enabling consumers using intel's ultrabook pc devices to make purchases using mastercard paypass-enabled devices (described below) at e-commerce site checkouts which feature enhanced authentication. contactless payment solutions . mastercard paypass, our contactless payment solution, utilizes radio frequency, or near-field communication (nfc) technology, to securely transmit payment details wirelessly through payment devices to paypass-branded contactless-enabled payment terminals for processing through the mastercard worldwide network. this technology enables consumers simply to tap their payment card or other payment device, such as a key fob, wristband or paypass tag that adheres to the back of a mobile device on a paypass-enabled terminal to complete a transaction. our mobile contactless payment solution, mastercard mobile paypass, is used to enable consumers to use their mobile devices in a similar way through integrated payment solutions. our paypass program primarily targets everyday purchases that rely on speed and convenience (such as supermarkets, fast food restaurants, parking, and transit). as of december 31, 2011, paypass programs have been rolled out in 37 countries worldwide. mobile . mastercard works with customers and leading technology companies to develop products and solutions for mobile commerce payments. these initiatives generally focus on: mobile wallets and mobile alliances: mastercard works with strategic partners to develop infrastructure and applications to enable smartphones with mastercard mobile paypass, our mobile contactless payment solution, to provide integrated payment solutions, or digital wallets , which enable consumers to securely use their phones to make payments and obtain other related services. recently, mastercard has partnered with google, first data and citibank in the united states to launch a digital wallet featuring an integrated mastercard prepaid card. mastercard has also partnered with our customers in korea, the united kingdom and turkey to launch digital wallets enabled by mastercard mobile paypass. in addition, mastercard has licensed mobile paypass to isis (a joint venture formed in the united states by at&amp;t, verizon and t-mobile) and to others to ensure that third-party digital wallets are embedded with mastercard payment functionality. mobile money services: mastercard provides various services to customers to enable consumers to pay from any type of mobile phone. these services include linking mobile accounts to virtual mastercard account numbers to allow subscribers (many of whom do not have traditional payment cards) to shop online, enabling person-to-person transfers (including mastercard's money transfer solution, mastercard moneysend ) on 10 table of contents behalf of mastercard's customers for their consumers using mobile devices, and enabling mobile subscribers to send payments to handsets of merchants who otherwise do not accept electronic payments. mobile money services are provided through mobile payments gateways, such as the mastercard mobile payments gateway, commercialized through our mps joint venture with smart hub. these gateways are turnkey mobile payment processing platforms that facilitate transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions for our customers. recently, mastercard entered into two joint ventures with telefonica to provide consumers with mobile payments services in brazil and 12 spanish-speaking countries in latin america where telefonica operates. mastercard also entered into a global agreement in 2011 with western union to enable consumers using its money transfer services to send or receive funds from or on to an eligible mastercard card. value-added services . mastercard develops services designed to support and enhance its products and solutions. mastercard incontrol is an innovative platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert controls and virtual card number capabilities that uses the functionality of the mastercard worldwide network and is designed to assist financial institutions in creating new and enhanced payment offerings. mastercard offers several fraud detection and prevention solutions, including expert monitoring system , a comprehensive suite of services designed to help its customers detect and prevent fraudulent activity. emv and chip development . mastercard continues to pursue chip technology development in accordance with the emv (the international standard for chip technology). we continue to work with our customers to help them replace traditional payment cards relying solely on magnetic stripe technology with chip-enabled payment cards that offer additional point-of-interaction functionality and the ability to provide value-added services to the cardholder. we are focused on broad migration towards chip-enabled technology as an opportunity to ensure the global interoperability of mastercard brands, reduce potential fraud and improve consumers' experience in using electronic payments by providing greater security and control in their payment choices. we intend to continue to take steps to help realize these opportunities in the united states and around the world and maintain our competitive position. these steps include solidifying emv technology as the foundation of future payment products and services and working with acquirers to develop the necessary infrastructure for a migration to emv. we are also involved in a number of organizations that facilitate the development and use of emv and chip-enabled cards globally. this includes participation with others in the industry in a smart card standards organization that maintains standards and specifications designed to ensure interoperability and acceptance of chip-based payment applications on a worldwide basis. acceptance initiatives overview. we estimate that, as of december 31, 2011, cards carrying the mastercard brand were accepted at 33.3 million acceptance locations worldwide, including 1.9 million atms and 0.6 million other locations where cash may be obtained. information on atm and manual cash access locations is reported by our customers and is partly based on publicly-available reports of payment industry associations, government agencies and independent market analysts. cards bearing the maestro or cirrus brand marks are accepted at many of these same locations. initiatives. we seek to maintain unsurpassed acceptance of mastercard-branded programs by focusing on three core initiatives: we seek to increase the categories of merchants that accept products carrying our brands. in addition to our focus on expanding acceptance in e-commerce and mobile commerce environments, we are also focused on using the functionality of the mastercard worldwide network to expand acceptance in quick service businesses (such as fast food restaurants), transportation (such as commuter train systems, buses and taxis), and public sector payments (such as those involving taxes, fees, fines and tolls), among other categories. we seek to increase the number of payment channels in which mastercard programs are accepted, such as by introducing mastercard acceptance in connection with bill payment applications. we are working with customers to encourage consumers to make bill payments in a variety of categories including rent, utilities and insurance with their mastercard-branded products. we seek to increase usage of our programs at selected merchants by sponsoring a wide range of promotional programs on a global basis. we also enter into arrangements with selected merchants under which these merchants receive performance incentives for the increased use of mastercard-branded programs or indicating a preference for mastercard-branded programs when accepting payments from consumers. additional services. in addition, we provide research, marketing support and financial assistance to our customers and their marketing partners in connection with the launch and marketing of co-branded and affinity card programs. co-branded cards are 11 table of contents payment cards bearing the logos or other insignia of an issuer and a marketing partner, such as an airline, mobile operator or retail merchant. affinity cards are similar to co-branded cards except that the issuer's marketing partner is typically a charitable, educational or other non-profit organization. merchants. merchants are an important constituency in the mastercard payment system and we are working to further develop our relationships with them. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. we believe that the growing role of merchants in the payments system represents both an opportunity and a challenge for mastercard. in particular, large merchants are supporting many of the litigation, legislative and regulatory challenges related to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending against, since interchange fees can represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks and risk factors-business risks-merchants continue to be focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability in part i, item 1a. many opportunities exist to enhance our relationships with merchants and provide them value, while continuing to expand acceptance of our products. in addition to partnering with merchants to increase opportunities for acceptance using paypass, we also work with merchants to convert private label cards into co-branded cards. we have also partnered with merchants to provide value to consumers, providing cardholders with enhanced benefits, experiences and offers. moreover, we work with merchants to provide employees the option of being paid on mastercard payroll cards, and to enable merchants the ability to collect payments using mastercard payment solutions. we also offer a suite of information products, data analytics and marketing services which can help merchants understand specific activity in their industry, evaluate their sales performance against competitors and focus direct marketing efforts to target desirable prospects and hard to reach segments. customer and partner relationship management we are committed to providing financial institutions, merchants, government entities, telecommunications companies and our other business partners with coordinated services in a manner that allows us to take advantage of our expertise in payment programs, product development, technology, operations, processing, consulting and information services and marketing. we manage our relationships with our customers and other partners on a global and regional basis to ensure that their priorities are consistently identified and incorporated into our product, brand, processing, technology and related strategies. we enter into business agreements pursuant to which we offer customers financial incentives and other support benefits to issue and promote our branded cards and other payment programs. financial incentives may be based on gdv or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new cards, launch of new programs or execution of marketing initiatives. we believe that our business agreements with customers have contributed to our volume and revenue growth in recent years. in addition, we have standard licensing arrangements with all of our customers that permit them to use our trademarks and subject them to the standards governing our payment programs. mastercard advisors mastercard advisors is our global professional services group which provides proprietary analysis, data-driven consulting and marketing services solutions and is focused exclusively on the payments industry. it differentiates us from our competitors by transforming data we collect into actionable insights for our customers and other clients. we provide services based on this data through three business lines: information services, consulting services, and managed services. information services provides a suite of data analytics and products (including reports, benchmarks, models and forecasts) to a diversified customer base, enabling them to make better business decisions. consulting services combines professional problem-solving skills with payments expertise to provide solutions that address the challenges and opportunities of customers with respect to their payments business, and help to maximize the value of that business. managed services provides executional and turnkey solutions via data-driven acquisition of accounts, activation of portfolios, conversion of cards, marketing promotions activities and other customer management services. mastercard advisors charges customers and other clients fees for its professional services, includes these services to aid in sales of other mastercard products or may offer these services as incentives under business agreements with certain customers. 12 table of contents marketing we manage and promote our brands through brand advertising, promotions, sponsorships and digital, mobile and social media initiatives. our brands support our strategic vision of advancing commerce globally. our marketing activities combine advertising, sponsorships, promotions, digital, mobile and social media, public relations and issuer and merchant engagement as part of an integrated program designed to increase consumer preference for mastercard brands and usage of mastercard products. we also seek to tailor our global marketing messages by customizing them in individual countries, while maintaining a common global theme. our initiatives are designed to build the value of the mastercard brand and drive stockholder value. our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall preference among cardholders globally. our award-winning priceless advertising campaign has run in 53 languages in 112 countries worldwide. the priceless campaign promotes mastercard usage benefits and acceptance that permit cardholders to pay for what they need, when they need it as well as marketing mastercard credit, debit, prepaid and commercial products and solutions. it also provides mastercard with a globally consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand positioning. mastercard continues to refine its consumer marketing approach, including by placing greater strategic focus on consumers spending preferences. priceless cities is a global program intended to increase preference for the mastercard brand by offering cardholders special experiences and offers when they are at home or traveling. mastercard launched priceless cities in 2011 in three initial cities - new york, london and toronto. we continue to support our brand by utilizing digital, mobile and social channels to allow us to engage more directly with our stakeholders and allow consumers and customers to engage directly in brand programs, promotions and merchant offers, as well as provide relevant information on mastercard products, services and tools. mastercard has also introduced global and regional specific smart phone applications, including mastercard's atm hunter , mastercard easy savings , paypass locator, mastercard moneysend , mcompass, and budget pilot that provide consumers with on-the-go utility. mastercard continues to use digital and mobile channels and social media to develop preference and usage with consumers and more effectively partner with customers and merchants to help them drive their respective businesses. for example, we have used facebook to run our debit priceless music promotion which offers concert tickets and other music benefits to holders of mastercard debit cards in australia. we also seek to deliver value to customers and consumers through the sponsorship of a variety of sporting, entertainment and charity-related marketing properties. mastercard has partnerships with major league baseball, the pga tour, the union of european football association champions league, the grammy awards, the brit awards and the walt disney company in europe. in 2011 mastercard entered into a new cause marketing partnership with stand up to cancer to encourage mastercard cardholders to made donations tied to usage of mastercard cards. we also sponsored the copa america 2011 tournament in argentina and rugby world cup in new zealand in 2011. our approach to sponsorship assets aligns with consumer segments important to mastercard and our customers. mastercard revenue sources mastercard generates revenues by charging fees to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on gdv on the cards that carry our brands. accordingly, our revenues are impacted both by the number of transactions that we process and by the use of cards carrying our brands. our net revenues are classified into the following five categories: domestic assessments: domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the volume of activity on cards that carry our brands where the acquirer country and the issuer country are the same. cross-border volume fees: cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the volume of activity on cards that carry our brands where the acquirer country and issuer country are different. transaction processing fees: transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and are primarily based on the number of transactions. other revenues: other revenues for other payment-related services include fees associated with fraud products and services, cardholder service fees, consulting and research fees, compliance and penalty fees, account and transaction enhancement services, holograms and publications. rebates and incentives (contra-revenue): rebates and incentives are provided to certain mastercard customers and are recorded as contra-revenue in the same period that performance occurs. 13 table of contents our pricing is complex and is dependent on the nature of the volumes, types of transactions and other products and services we offer to our customers. a combination of the following factors determines the pricing: domestic or cross-border signature-based or pin-based tiered pricing, with rates decreasing as customers meet incremental volume/transaction hurdles geographic region or country retail purchase or cash withdrawal processed or not processed by mastercard in general, cross-border transactions generate higher revenue than domestic transactions since cross-border fees are higher than domestic fees, and in most cases also include fees for currency conversion. we review our pricing and implement pricing changes on an ongoing basis. in addition, standard pricing varies among our regional businesses, and such pricing can be modified for our customers through incentive and rebate agreements. revenues from processing cross-border transactions fluctuate with cross-border activities. see risk factors-business risks- a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions in part i, item 1a. in 2011, net revenues from our five largest customers accounted for approximately $1.7 billion, or 26% of our total revenue. no single customer generated greater than 10% of total revenue. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - revenues in part ii, item 7 for more detail. 14 table of contents gdv and processed transactions the tables below provide information regarding two key drivers of our revenue: (1) gdv, which forms the basis of volume-based revenues, and (2) processed transactions. gdv. the gdv table below provides information regarding the gdv for all mastercard-branded cards (excluding cirrus and maestro) and for both mastercard credit and charge programs and mastercard debit and prepaid programs in the united states and in all of our other regions for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010. growth rates are provided on both a u.s. dollar and local currency basis for the periods indicated. gdv represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made and cash disbursements obtained with mastercard-branded cards and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks. year-over-year growth year ended december 31, 2011 u.s. $ local currency 2 year ended december 31, 2010 (in billions, except percentages) all mastercard branded programs asia pacific/middle east/africa $ 805 30.1 % 22.9 % $ 619 canada 119 11.7 % 7.3 % 107 europe 979 21.0 % 16.7 % 809 latin america 277 25.5 % 22.6 % 220 worldwide less united states 2,180 24.2 % 19.1 % 1,755 united states 1,069 10.4 % 10.4 % 968 worldwide $ 3,249 19.3 % 16.1 % $ 2,723 all mastercard credit and charge programs worldwide less united states $ 1,521 21.2 % 16.0 % $ 1,255 united states 543 6.0 % 6.0 % 512 worldwide $ 2,064 16.8 % 13.2 % $ 1,767 all mastercard debit and prepaid programs worldwide less united states $ 659 31.8 % 26.8 % $ 500 united states 526 15.4 % 15.4 % 456 worldwide $ 1,185 24.0 % 21.5 % $ 956 * note that figures in the above table may not sum due to rounding. 1 gdv generated by maestro and cirrus cards is not included. the data for gdv is provided by mastercard customers and includes information with respect to mastercard-branded transactions that are not processed by mastercard and for which mastercard does not earn significant revenues. all data is subject to revision and amendment by mastercard's customers subsequent to the date of its release, which revisions and amendments may be material. 2 local currency growth eliminates the impact of currency fluctuations and represents local market performance. processed transactions. the table below sets forth the total number of transactions processed by mastercard for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010: year ended december 31, 2011 year-over-year growth year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions, except percentages) processed transactions 27,265 18.3 % 23,052 15 table of contents participation standards we establish and enforce our standards surrounding participation in mastercard and the use and acceptance of cards carrying our brands. rulemaking and application of standards participation in the mastercard payments network is generally open to financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. applicants for participation must meet specified requirements. in general, mastercard grants licenses by territory to applicants that meet those specified criteria. licenses provide customers with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of our brands. anti-money laundering due diligence reviews and customer risk management reviews are conducted on all new customers prior to issuing a license and existing customers are evaluated applying a risk-based approach. all customers must meet the requirements of mastercard's anti-money laundering program, and mastercard can suspend and ultimately terminate participation for non-compliance with the program. as a condition of our licenses, customers agree to comply with our standards, which include requirements set forth within our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, policies, rules and operating regulations and procedures. mastercard and certain of its affiliates are the governing bodies that establish and apply our standards, which relate to topics such as participation eligibility and financial soundness criteria; the standards, design and features of cards and card programs; the use of mastercard trademarks; merchant acquiring activities (including acceptance standards applicable to merchants); and guaranteed settlement and customer failures. customer risk management as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal customers, we are exposed to customer credit risk arising from the potential financial failure of any principal customers of mastercard, maestro and cirrus, and affiliate debit licensees. our gross settlement risk exposure for mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded transactions, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $39.1 billion as of december 31, 2011. principal customers participate directly in mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate customers. to minimize the contingent risk to mastercard of a failure, we monitor the financial health of, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our standards by, our principal customers, affiliate debit licensees and other entities to which we grant licenses. if the financial condition of a customer or the state of the economy or political environment in which it operates indicates that it may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us or to other mastercard customers, or its payment obligations to mastercard merchants, we may require the customer to make operational changes and/or post collateral. this collateral is typically in the form of a standby letter of credit, a bank guarantee or a secured cash account and is required to mitigate our exposure. as of december 31, 2011, we had customers who had posted approximately $3.5 billion in collateral held for settlement exposure for mastercard-branded transactions. if a customer becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us or other customers, we are able to draw upon such customer's collateral, if provided, in order to minimize any potential loss to our customers or ourselves. in addition to obtaining collateral from customers, in situations where a customer is potentially unable to meet its obligations to us or other customers, we can suspend and ultimately terminate participation in our network. additionally, and to further preserve payment system integrity, mastercard reserves the right to terminate a customer's right to participate in our network if, for example, the customer fails or refuses to make payments in the ordinary course of business, or if a liquidating agent, conservator or receiver is appointed for the customer. in addition to these measures, we have also established a $2.75 billion committed credit facility to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of customer settlement failure. see risk factors-business risks-as a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity in part i, item 1a of this report. see also risk factors-business risks-unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business in part i, item 1a of this report. payment system integrity the integrity of our payment system can be affected by fraudulent activity and illegal uses of our products and our system. fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or stolen account information, often resulting from security breaches of third-party systems that inappropriately transmit, process or store cardholder account data. see risk factors-business risks-account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue in part i, item 1a of this report. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as e-commerce, mobile commerce, mail order and telephone order transactions. security and 16 table of contents cardholder authentication for these remote channels are particularly critical issues facing our customers and merchants who engage in these forms of commerce, where a signed cardholder sales receipt or the presence of the card or merchant agent is unavailable. we monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our standards to combat fraudulent activity. we also operate several compliance programs to help ensure that the integrity of our payment system is maintained by our customers and their agents. key compliance programs include merchant audits (for high fraud, excessive chargebacks and processing of illegal transactions) and security compliance (including our mastercard site data protection service , which assists customers and merchants in protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and subsequent account data compromises) by requiring proper adherence to the payment card industry data security standards (pci dss). our customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so we can monitor trends and initiate action where appropriate. our customers generally are responsible for fraud losses associated with the products they issue and the merchants from which they acquire transactions. however, we have implemented a series of programs and systems to aid them in detecting and preventing the fraudulent use of mastercard products. we provide education programs and various risk management tools to help prevent fraud, including mastercard securecode , a global internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code, and our site data protection program to advance adherence to the pci dss. we also provide fraud detection and prevention solutions, including our suite of fraud management products and services, expert monitoring system, and datacash fraud prevention tools for e-commerce merchants. enterprise risk management mastercard faces a number of risks in operating its business (for a description of material risks, see risk factors in part i, item 1a of this report). managing risk is an integral component of our business activities and the degree to which we manage risk is vital to our financial condition and profitability. we have an enterprise risk management ( erm ) program which is integrated with the business and designed to ensure appropriate and comprehensive oversight and management of end-to-end risk. the erm program leverages our business processes to, among other things, ensure: allocation of resources to appropriately address risk; establishment of clear accountability for risk management; and provision of transparency of risks to senior management, the board of directors and appropriate board committees. our erm program seeks to accomplish these goals by: identifying, prioritizing and monitoring key risks; providing an independent view of our risk profile; and strengthening business operations by integrating erm principles and continuing to create a risk aware culture within mastercard. mastercard's integrated risk management structure balances risk and return by having business units and central functions (such as finance and law) identify, own and manage risks; our executive officers set policy and accountability and our board of directors and committees provide oversight of the process. intellectual property we own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including mastercard , maestro and cirrus , through one or more affiliates. we also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by mastercard to support our payment programs. trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained. through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers' card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. in addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. patents are of varying duration depending on the jurisdiction and filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term. competition general. mastercard programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); card-based payment systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards; contactless, mobile and web-based payments; and other electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. as a result of a global trend, electronic forms of payment such as payment cards are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment, and card brands such as mastercard, visa, american express and discover are benefiting from this displacement. however, cash and checks still capture the largest overall percentage of worldwide payment volume. payment card, processing and alternative competitors. general purpose payment card industry. within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa (including plus electron and interlink), american 17 table of contents express and discover, among others. within the global general purpose card industry, visa has significantly greater volume than we do. outside of the united states, some of our competitors such as jcb in japan and unionpay in china have leading positions in their domestic markets. regulation can also play a role in determining competitive market advantages for competitors. for example, unionpay is the sole domestic processor designated by the chinese government and operates the sole national cross-bank bankcard information switch network in china as a result of local regulation. some governments, such as india and russia, are promoting local networks for domestic processing and there are similar developments in other countries. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks- government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues in part i, item 1a of this report. particular segments. we face competition with respect to particular segments of the payment card industry, including: debit. in the debit card sector, we also encounter substantial and increasingly intense competition from atm and point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as interlink , plus and visa electron (owned by visa inc.), star (owned by first data corporation), nyce (owned by fis), and pulse (owned by discover), in the united states; interac in canada; eftpos in australia; and bankserv in south africa. in addition, in many countries outside of the united states, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume. pin-based debit transactions. in the united states, some of our competitors process a greater number of pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do. in addition, our business and revenues could be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. merchants to migrate from signature-based debit transactions to pin-based debit transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. this tendency may be accelerated as a result of the board of governors of the federal reserve system (the federal reserve ) implementing regulations associated with the wall street reform and consumer protection act (as defined and described below under government regulation ). in addition, pin-based debit transactions are more likely to be processed by other domestic atm/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. see risk factors-business risks-if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth in part i, item 1a of this report. private-label. private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or other types of merchants, also serve as another form of competition. end-to-end payment networks. our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payment networks that have direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with cardholders, such as american express and discover. these competitors have certain advantages that we do not enjoy. among other things, these competitors do not require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs among issuers and acquirers, because they typically have direct relationships with both merchants and cardholders. interchange fees, which are a characteristic of four-party payments systems such as ours, are subject to increased regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks-interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a of this report. to date, operators of end-to-end payment networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face because they do not utilize formal interchange fees. accordingly, these operators may enjoy a competitive advantage over four-party payments systems. competition for customer business . we compete intensely with other card networks for customer business. globally, financial institutions typically issue both mastercard and visa-branded payment cards, and we compete with visa for business on the basis of individual card portfolios or programs. some of our customers also do business with american express or discover in the united states, and a number of our large customers now issue american express and/or discover-branded cards. we also compete for new business partners with whom we seek to work, such as merchants, government agencies and telecommunication companies. see risk factors-business risks-our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry in part i, item 1a of this report. our ability to compete in the global payments industry for customer business can be affected by the outcome of litigation, regulatory proceedings and legislative activity. for example, in october 2011, the federal reserve implemented regulations, pursuant to the enactment into law of the wall street reform and consumer protection act, prohibiting arrangements under which a debit card or 18 table of contents prepaid card can be processed only by one network (or only by a group of affiliated networks). the wall street reform and consumer protection act also prohibits any restrictions on a merchant's ability to route a transaction over any one of the networks that is enabled on a debit card or prepaid card. these events have resulted in challenges, as well as potential opportunities to compete for business in this area. transaction processors . we face competition from transaction processors throughout the world, such as first data corporation and total system services, inc., some of which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment card transaction authorization and processing services. certain of these transaction processors could potentially displace mastercard as the provider of these payment processing services. new entrants and alternative payment systems . we also compete against relatively new entrants and alternative payment providers, such as paypal (a business segment of ebay), which have developed payment systems in e-commerce and across mobile devices. while paypal is an established and important player in internet payments, this is an increasingly competitive area, as evidenced by the proliferation of new online competitors. among other services, these competitors provide internet payment services that can be used to buy and sell goods online, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts for internet, mobile commerce and other applications. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet and potential wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. the payment card industry is also facing changes in services and technology related to mobile payments and emerging competition from mobile operators and handset manufacturers. micro-payments on social networks such as facebook are relatively small today but have the potential to grow rapidly, representing the potential for competition from a new payment form. financial institution customers . pricing. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers. we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of rebates and incentives we provide to our customers and merchants, as we have in the last several years. see risk factors-business risks-we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in part i, item 1a. banking industry consolidation. the banking industry has undergone substantial accelerated consolidation over the last several years, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a substantial loss of business for mastercard. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which generally have a greater ability to negotiate pricing discounts with mastercard. consolidations could prompt our customers to renegotiate our business agreements to obtain more favorable terms. this pressure on the prices we charge our customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. see risk factors- business risks-additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in part i, item 1a. competitive position. we believe that the principal factors influencing our competitive position in the global payments industry are: the ability to develop and implement competitive new card programs, systems and technologies in both physical and virtual environments; the ability to participate in new payment forms; customer relationships; the impact of existing and future litigation, legislation and government regulation; the impact of globalization and consolidation of financial institutions and merchants; 19 table of contents the acceptance base, reputation and brand recognition of payment cards; pricing; the success and scope of marketing and promotional campaigns; the quality, security and integrity of transaction processing; the relative value of services and products offered; and the impact of new market entrants. government regulation general. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in the last several years, including in the united states. regulators in several countries outside of the united states have also become increasingly interested in payment issues, a number of which have launched official proceedings related to payment industry issues. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a of this report. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. such challenges include regulatory proceedings in the european union (by the european commission, as well as by individual european union member states) and elsewhere. interchange fees have also become the subject of legislative action. in particular, regulations implemented in october 2011 by the federal reserve in accordance with the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the wall street reform and consumer protection act ) set limits on debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees . see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations and the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a and in note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. no-surcharge rules. we have historically implemented policies in certain regions that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard instead of other means. several jurisdictions have indicated interest in either ending or limiting the application of these no-surcharge rules. in particular, the reserve bank of australia (the "rba") had enacted regulations prohibiting the networks from enforcing no-surcharge rules. in december 2011, the rba indicated that it would consider allowing certain limitations to a merchant's ability to surcharge. our no-surcharge rules in canada have also been challenged by the canadian competition bureau. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states, the european union and elsewhere. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission's information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. our customers in the united states are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. as part of their compliance with the requirements, each of our u.s. customers is expected to have a program in place for responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to customers. in the united states, during the past several years, a number of bills have been considered by congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address consumer privacy, passive collection of information (such as use of cookies and other technology), information safeguarding and data breach issues. congress continues to consider these issues, which could result in legislation that may have an adverse impact on us and our customers. a large number of u.s. states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. in europe, the european parliament and council is in the process of revising the european directive 95/46/ec (the directive ), which provides for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. the revised regulation, as well as the directive, obligates the controller of an individual's personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. both the current directive and the proposed regulation establish general principles with regard to the 20 table of contents processing of personal data, including the legal grounds for processing, the rights of individuals with regard to their personal data, restrictions on transfers of the personal data outside the european economic area, and the obligation of the controller of that information to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. in addition to the united states and europe, many jurisdictions around the world are enacting similar privacy, data protection and information security regulations which have similar impacts to our businesses in these jurisdictions. see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/ or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs in part i, item 1a of this report. anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism. mastercard and other participants in the payment industry are also subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352 of the usa patriot act. section 352 of the usa patriot act requires mastercard to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering program and imposes similar requirements on our financial institution customers in the united states. our anti-money laundering program must be reasonably designed to prevent our system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. the program must include the designation of a compliance officer, provide for the training of appropriate personnel regarding anti-money laundering responsibilities, as well as incorporate policies, procedures, and controls to mitigate money laundering risks, and be independently audited. we are also subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) restricting financial transactions with cuba, burma/myanmar, iran, syria and sudan and with persons and entities included in ofac's list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). cuba, iran, sudan and syria also have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. mastercard takes measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions; however, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payment system. it is possible that our reputation may suffer due to our customer financial institutions' association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. financial industry regulation . mastercard customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and elsewhere, and as a consequence mastercard is impacted by such regulations. certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council ( ffiec ) under its authority to examine financial institutions' technology service providers. examinations by the ffiec cover areas such as data integrity and data security. in recent years, the u.s. federal banking regulators have adopted a series of regulatory measures affecting credit card payment terms and requiring more conservative accounting, greater risk management and in some cases higher capital requirements for bank credit card activities, particularly in the case of banks that focus on subprime cardholders. in addition, mastercard europe operates a retail payment system in europe and is subject to oversight by the national bank of belgium pursuant to standards published by the european central bank that are principally targeted at managing financial, legal and operations risk. in july 2010, as part of the wall street reform and consumer protection act, the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) was created. the cfpb has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products, although it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will be authorized to regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations. in addition, the wall street reform and consumer protection act created the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) in order to identify risks to the financial stability of the united states that could arise from the material financial distress or failure of, or ongoing activities by, large, interconnected bank holding companies or nonbank financial companies. among other responsibilities, fsoc is tasked with identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems that are systemically important under the applicable statutory standard. under the wall street reform and consumer protection act, such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. it is not clear whether mastercard would be deemed systemically important. however, the imposition of any additional regulatory or other obligations on mastercard could result in costly new compliance burdens that could negatively impact our business. see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a of this report. government-imposed market participation regulations . regulators in several countries such as australia, mexico, colombia, india, singapore, russia and indonesia have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries. such regulations include, or could include, providing broad regulatory oversight over retail payment system operators to the central banks in such countries. in addition, governments in some countries may act to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payment card and processing providers, which could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. issuer practice regulation. the federal reserve has also adopted regulations addressing overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. these regulations may limit the ability of our customers to charge overdraft fees in connection 21 table of contents with debit card programs. this may diminish the attractiveness of debit card programs to our customers and may adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues. regulation of internet transactions . in october 2006, the u.s. congress enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. compliance was required no later than june 1, 2010, although congress may consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate internet gambling. the federal regulation required us and our customers to implement compliance programs that could increase our costs and/or could decrease our transaction volumes. in addition, the u.s. congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. some u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. these new requirements and developments may affect our customers' ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers' ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as prepaid cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenue and revenue growth. seasonality see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-seasonality in part ii, item 7 of this report for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. financial information about geographic areas see note 23 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2011, we employed approximately 6,700 persons, of which approximately 2,900 were employed outside of the united states. we consider our relationship with employees to be good. additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware stock corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through mastercard incorporated's principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. in may 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for mastercard incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the ipo )) which included the appointment of a new board of directors which is comprised almost entirely of directors who are independent from our customers. for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 15 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. website and sec reports the company's internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. in addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about mastercard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting e-mail alerts in the investor relations section of our corporate website. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant financial institution (the acquirer) to the cardholder financial institution (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated on our payment system. we do not earn revenues from interchange fees. they are, however, a key factor in balancing the costs consumers pay and the costs merchants pay in our payment system. they are also a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process over our network. although we have historically set default interchange fees in the united states and other countries, in certain jurisdictions, our interchange rates and related practices, including our default interchange fees, are subject to increased litigation and government regulation as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through litigation, regulatory action and/or legislative action. increased legislative scrutiny in the united states has resulted in limitations on the rates we are able to establish for default interchange rates for debit and prepaid transactions. in july 2010, the united states enacted into law the wall street reform and consumer protection act that, among other things, requires debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. in october 2011, the u.s. federal reserve board implemented regulations in accordance with the wall street reform and consumer protection act limiting interchange fees for debit and prepaid transactions fee. see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in this part i, item 1a for more detail. interchange fees also have been the subject of legislative activity elsewhere, including: in the european union, in january 2012, the european commission issued a "green-paper" (typically the first step in the european legislative process) identifying a number of concerns with the payments industry, including concerns about interchange fees. in february 2012, representatives of the european commission stated publicly that the european commission intends to propose legislation based on some elements included within the green paper in early 2013. in brazil, in december 2011, the central bank of brazil (together with competition agencies in brazil) issued a follow-up to its may 2010 report, providing an analysis of the evolution of the payment card industry and market. the report includes indications that it is closely monitoring trends with respect to interchange fees and the cost of acceptance in general, and raises questions about the impact of the no- surcharge rule in the brazilian consumer protection code. in canada, there has been increasing attention by policymakers on payments, and specifically the cost of acceptance, which includes interchange fees. in 2010, the canadian department of finance implemented a voluntary code of conduct on related issues for payment card industry participants in canada, by which mastercard voluntarily agreed to abide. in 2011, the minister of finance formed a task force to make non-binding recommendations with respect to the future of canadian payments, including a focus on the cost of acceptance. the task force issued a preliminary report which included a broad recommendation for greater oversight over retail payments. it is anticipated that the department of finance will issue a report in response to the task force's recommendation in early 2012. in italy in 2011, the italian legislature adopted a law requiring companies involved in providing electronic payments (including mastercard) to negotiate lower merchant discount rates and interchange fees with merchants. in nigeria, in august 2011, the central bank of nigeria announced new guidelines related to point of sale card acceptance services, prescribing certain minimum standards and requirements for payments industry participants, including card networks. these guidelines include, among other things, limiting merchant discount rates, which affects the ability to set interchange rates. 23 table of contents in addition, regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions around the world have commenced proceedings or inquiries into interchange fees and related practices. examples include: in the european union, in december 2007, the european commission issued a negative decision (which we have appealed to the general court of the european union and we are awaiting a judgment) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for consumer credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. in australia, the reserve bank of australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours. in the united kingdom, in february 2007, the office of fair trading commenced a new investigation (which has been suspended pending the outcome of our appeal of the european commission decision) of our current u.k. credit card interchange fees and so-called immediate debit cards to determine whether such fees contravene u.k. and european union competition law. in poland, in january 2007, the polish office for protection of competition and consumers issued a decision that our domestic interchange fees are unlawful under polish competition law, and imposed fines on our licensed financial institutions - the decision is currently being appealed. in hungary, mastercard europe is appealing the hungarian competition office december 2009 decision (which has been stayed) ruling that mastercard europe's historic domestic interchange fees violate hungarian competition law and fining mastercard europe approximately u.s. $3 million. in italy, mastercard europe appealed the november 2010 decision of the italian competition authority (the ica ) ruling that mastercard europe's domestic interchange fees violate european union competition law and fining mastercard 2.7 million euro - the decision was overturned and mastercard europe is awaiting the results of the ica's appeal. in canada, in addition to the legislative activity described above, in december 2010 the canadian competition bureau filed an application with the canadian competition tribunal to strike down rules related to mastercard's interchange fees, including its honor all cards and no surcharge rules. in south africa, in september 2010, mastercard was informed by the south african reserve bank that it intended to appoint an independent consultant to make a recommendation on a simplified interchange structure for all payment systems in south africa. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees. we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators' approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products in this part i, item 1a. additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that mastercard's interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard and its customer banks, and mastercard, visa and their customer banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages, attorneys' fees and injunctive relief. in addition, in canada, three class action suits have been filed against mastercard, visa and a number of large canadian banks relating to mastercard and visa rules related to interchange fees, including honor all cards and no surcharge rules. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payment system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers also could charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. this could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings. we are devoting 24 table of contents substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. the wall street reform and consumer protection act enacted in the united states includes provisions that provide for the regulation by the federal reserve of debit and prepaid interchange fees and certain other network industry practices. among other things, it requires debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees (referred to in the wall street reform and consumer protection act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. additionally, it provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive network arrangements for debit or prepaid cards or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit or prepaid transactions. as of october 1, 2011, federal reserve regulations went into effect implementing these provisions in accordance with the wall street reform and consumer protection act (with certain exceptions for issuer compliance with the exclusivity requirements). the regulations limit per-transaction u.s. debit and prepaid interchange fees to 21 cents plus five basis points. the issuer may receive interim fraud prevention adjustment of an additional one cent if it meets certain requirements. the interchange limitations are a significant reduction from average interchange fees in effect before the regulations were implemented. the regulations contain exemptions from the interchange limitations for issuers that, together with their affiliates, have less than $10 billion in assets, as well as for debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered payment program and certain reloadable prepaid cards. also, while the regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions. see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in this part i, item 1a. with respect to network arrangements and transaction routing, the regulations require debit and prepaid cards to be enabled with two unaffiliated payment card networks. the regulations also provide that an issuer or payment card network may not inhibit the ability of any person that accepts or honors a debit or prepaid card to direct the routing of the card transaction for processing over any network enabled on the card. the wall street reform and consumer protection act also created two new independent regulatory bodies in - the cfpb and fsoc. the cfpb has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products, although it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will be authorized to regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations. the fsoc is tasked, among other responsibilities, with identifying systemically important payment, clearing and settlement systems that will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements, although it is not clear whether mastercard would be deemed systemically important under the applicable standard. if mastercard were deemed systemically important, it would be subject to new risk management regulations relating to its payment, clearing, and settlement activities. new regulations could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements. also, a systemically important payment system could be required to obtain prior approval from the federal reserve or another federal agency for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payment system. these developments or actions could increase the cost of operating our business and may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, as well as consumers. this could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. if issuers, acquirers and/or merchants modify their business operations or otherwise take actions in response to this legislation which have the result of reducing the number of debit or prepaid transactions we process or the network fees we collect, the wall street reform and consumer protection act could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. failure by our customers or us to adjust our strategies successfully to compete in the new environment would increase this impact. new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. 25 table of contents consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. this includes the wall street reform and consumer protection act and federal reserve regulations implemented under the act, as well as other regulatory and legislative activity relating to interchange. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations like those affecting debit payments could lead to regulations affecting credit and general use prepaid cards. see risk factors - legal and regulatory risks - government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues in this part i, item 1a. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product. these include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries, such as russia, ukraine and india could act to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment card and processing providers. these governments may take this action to support these providers. they may also take this action to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. as an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider (and in the case of venezuela have ordered), regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers. our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. in addition to the wall street reform and consumer protection act, examples include: anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism - mastercard is subject to anti-money laundering regulation, such as section 352(a) of the usa patriot act in the united states and an anti-money laundering law enacted in india (which imposes requirements on payment systems, such as mastercard's, and their customers). in addition, regulations imposed by ofac impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. it is possible that transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions may be processed through our payment system, and that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions' association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. government-imposed market participation regulations - several countries have implemented, or are authorized to implement, payment systems regulation, such as the indian payments and settlement systems act 2007, under which payment system operators, such as mastercard, operate under the authority and broad oversight of the reserve bank of india. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. issuer practice legislation and regulation - issuer practices legislation and regulation, including the credit card act (which was signed into law in the united states in may 2009 and is being implemented through regulations issued by the federal reserve), are having a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers' account terms and business practices by, among other things, making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and significantly affecting the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major 26 table of contents credit card issuers. additional regulations include regulations by the board of governors regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. regulation of internet transactions - regulation of internet transactions include legislation enacted by the u.s. congress (and applicable to payment system participants, including mastercard and our customers in the united states) requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions, as well as various additional legislative and regulatory activities with respect to internet transactions which are being considered in the united states. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. recently, these topics have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states (at both the federal and state level), in europe as well as in other jurisdictions around the world. in 2011, additional privacy and data protection laws and regulations were enacted in several countries, including india, mexico, colombia and venezuela. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. determinations which we could make in the future to establish reserves or liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. as discussed in note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report, w e recorded a $770 million pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2011 which represents our estimate for the financial portion of a settlement of the u.s. merchant litigation cases. except as otherwise discussed in note 20, we have not established reserves for any other of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our other legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. for example, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit in 2003, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. moreover, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a pre-tax charge in the u.s. merchant litigation cases based on progress in the mediation process. the plaintiffs in these cases are also seeking changes to our business practices. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. 27 table of contents potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments. potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the united states, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate. see also note 19 (income tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. business risks our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. within the global general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover, unionpay and jcb, among others. visa has greater volume than we do, and has greater scale and market share, as well as strong brand recognition, which may provide significant competitive advantages. moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, regulatory proceedings and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payment systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end-to-end payment systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four party payment systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payment systems such as ours. certain competitors may also hold competitive advantages as a result of their organizational structures. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. our customers can also develop their own competitive services. as a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems, e-commerce payment systems and payment systems for mobile devices. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we also expect that there may be other changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby dis-intermediating mastercard. rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard-branded cards. competitors, customers, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. 28 table of contents our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business, revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for mastercard, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest significant customers, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2011, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.7 billion, or 26%, of total revenue. loss of business from 29 table of contents any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants continue to be focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants are supporting many of the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks-interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. also see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks-the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with exclusive or nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from mastercard to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. 30 table of contents in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. our business may be materially and adversely affected by the marketplace's perception of our brands and reputation. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of our company and industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory. moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, such use could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business. if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. in recent years, on an industry-wide basis, signature-based and pin-based debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions (although this could be impacted by the federal reserve's implementation of network exclusivity rules under the wall street reform and consumer protection act). we may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. consumers and merchants to migrate from signature-based debit transactions to pin-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions and, as noted above, pin-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks than by us. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. the competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. unprecedented events which began during 2008 impacted the financial markets around the world, including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention. the economies of the united states and numerous countries around the world were significantly impacted by this economic turmoil. more recently, several european countries have experienced downgrades in sovereign credit ratings by rating agencies, driven by fiscal challenges. in addition, some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations. many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted. mastercard's financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis and the state of economic environments. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. as a result, our revenue may be negatively impacted, or we may be impacted, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors; for example, a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on cross-border travel patterns, which may continue to change. constriction of consumer and business confidence, such as in recessionary environments and those markets 31 table of contents experiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders. our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable. our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. our customers may decrease spending for value-added services. government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including due to an increased probability of sovereign defaults in several european countries causing a liquidity crisis for our customers. see note 21 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for further discussion of our settlement exposure. our business and prospects, as well as our revenue and profitability, could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. see additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability in part i, item 1a (risk factors) of this report for further discussion. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. general economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. also, as we are principally based in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth. as a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations. our mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to 32 table of contents settle, was approximately $39.1 billion as of december 31, 2011. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.75 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. in the event that mastercard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, mastercard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from its other customers. subject to approval by our board of directors, customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of mastercard. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited. as a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. moreover, during 2011, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by the unprecedented events in the financial markets which began during 2008 and the economic turmoil that has ensued. the european financial crisis remains a heightened concern. our aggregate gross settlement exposures to italy, spain, greece and portugal, four of the countries most significantly impacted by the eurozone crisis, are less than 5% of our total gross settlement exposure and are being managed through various planning and mitigation practices. nonetheless, these conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. separately, mastercard also provides guarantees to customers and certain other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from failures of third parties to perform. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of december 31, 2011, see note 21 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. if our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems and other services may experience service interruptions as a result of process or other technology malfunction, fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. a disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. our visibility in the global payments industry may also attract terrorists, activists or hackers to attack our facilities or systems. we routinely receive cyber-threats of varying levels. any actual attacks could lead to service interruptions, increased costs or data security compromises. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. we maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. despite these mitigation efforts, however, we cannot ensure that the security infrastructure of our processing systems would be immune to these risks. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or other cybersecurity incidents or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands' reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, merchants, and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. in recent years, there have been several high-profile account data compromise events involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affected millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of cardholders. these events typically involve external agents hacking and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of servers. as a result of such data security breaches, we may be subject to lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. while most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, we could be exposed to damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our profitability. any damage to our reputation or that of 33 table of contents our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation and financial damage, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenue and income or limit our future growth. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes by the complexity of our systems or by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our operations outside of the united states. during 2011, approximately 60.4% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. if we do not adequately manage the changes necessary to implement our strategy and effectively deliver our products and solutions, our results of operations may suffer. mastercard continues to experience a significant amount of changes associated with items related to our strategy, including changes in technology, the marketplace, our customers and our products. in particular, our recent expansion into new businesses could result in unanticipated or unfamiliar issues which may be difficult to manage. in addition to these changes, we also need to continue to be effective in delivering our existing products and services and in effectively managing related risks. if not adequately managed, both these changes related to our strategy and our continued delivery of products and solutions could result in missed opportunities for the business or could impact the effectiveness of our organization's execution of its strategy. as we manage our strategy and any related changes, any difficulty in retaining or attracting key management and employees could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets necessary for the organization's effective execution of its strategy. 34 table of contents acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition or reputation. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in addition, the integration of any acquisition or investment (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any of these acquisitions could also result in control issues which could negatively affect our reputation. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. as of february 9, 2012, we had 121,335,751 outstanding shares of class a common stock, of which 12,819,395 shares were owned by the mastercard foundation (the foundation ). under the terms of the donation of these shares by mastercard to the foundation, the foundation became able to sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo in may 2006 to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. despite permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to 15 years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the 15-year period, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. the market price of our common stock could be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations and have experienced increased volatility in connection with recent unpredictable economic events around the world. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: the continuation of unprecedented economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity; potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and developments in our industry. there are terms in our charter documents and under delaware law that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or 35 table of contents prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, except in limited circumstances, no customer or former customer of mastercard, or any operator, customer or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; our board of directors is divided into three classes - although pursuant to our amended certificate of incorporation, a phase-out of these classes has begun and will be completed in 2013 (when each director will be elected each year, with only two-thirds of our directors to be elected in 2012); any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors; prior to our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, our directors may be removed only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class. a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. as of february 9, 2012 the foundation owns 12,819,395 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.6% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the ipo, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. 36 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there were no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2011 as compared to december 31, 2010. the wall street reform and consumer protection act includes provisions related to derivative financial instruments and the company is determining what impact, if any, such provisions will have on the company's financial position or results of operations. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward contracts to manage foreign exchange risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into forward contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward contracts are generally less than 18 months. as of december 31, 2011 , all contracts to purchase and sell foreign currency had been entered into with customers of mastercard. mastercard's derivative contracts are summarized below: december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 notional estimated fair value 1 notional estimated fair value 1 (in millions) commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 21 $ $ 38 $ 1 commitments to sell foreign currency 279 2 148 (2 ) 1 amounts represent gross fair value amounts while these amounts may be netted for actual balance sheet presentation. our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the typical one business day time-frame between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions and by confining the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of 17 other transaction currencies. the remaining 133 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. 60 table of contents interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our investments in debt securities, which we generally hold as available-for-sale investments. our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company's available for sale investments as of december 31 was as follows: maturity (in millions) (in millions) fair market value at december 31, 2011 2017 and there- after financial instrument summary terms 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 393 $ 109 $ 74 $ 62 $ 59 $ 40 $ 49 corporate securities fixed / variable interest 325 146 91 88 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 205 176 15 3 4 3 4 taxable short-term bond funds fixed / variable interest 1 203 1 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 69 43 24 2 auction rate securities variable interest 70 70 other fixed / variable interest 20 16 4 total $ 1,285 $ 490 $ 208 $ 155 $ 63 $ 43 $ 123 1 short-term bond funds of $203 million have no contractual maturity. maturity (in millions) (in millions) fair market value at december 31, 2010 2016 and there- after financial instrument summary terms 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 municipal securities fixed interest $ 315 $ 8 $ 33 $ 93 $ 69 $ 55 $ 57 short-term bond funds fixed / variable interest 1 516 1 auction rate securities variable interest 106 106 total $ 937 $ 8 $ 33 $ 93 $ 69 $ 55 $ 163 1 short-term bond funds of $516 million have no contractual maturity. at december 31, 2011, we have a credit facility which provides liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by the company's customers. this credit facility has variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. we had no borrowings under this facility at december 31, 2011 or 2010. see note 13 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information. equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2011 and 2010. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 23 merchant discount rate. the merchant discount rate is established by the acquirer to cover its costs of participating in the four-party system and generally to provide for a profit margin with respect to services rendered to the merchant. the rate takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer. 6 table of contents additional fees and economic considerations. among the parties in a four-party system, various types of fees may be charged to different constituents for various services. for example, acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount rate. issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. as described below, we charge issuers and acquirers transaction-based and related fees for the transaction processing and related services we provide them. in a four-party payments system, the economics of a payment transaction relative to mastercard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction or cash withdrawal, and whether the transaction is processed over our network or a third-party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an on-us transaction). authentication . generally, transactions processed over our network can be authenticated at the point of interaction and across the processing value chain. a typical transaction processed over our network can be authenticated in several ways (depending on the type of card or device being used): signature-based transactions that typically require a cardholder to sign a sales receipt as the primary means of validation at the point of interaction (other than circumstances, such as purchases over the internet and low-value purchases, where a signature is not necessary); pin-based transactions that require the cardholder to input a pin for verification which can be validated by the issuer at their processing site; and transactions using chip-enabled cards and point-of-interaction devices which allow for automatic authentication between the card and device (as well as, depending on the card or device, signature or pin authentication). in addition, some payment cards and devices are equipped with an rfid (radio frequency identification) microchip, which provides an advanced authentication technique, and technology that allows contactless payments requiring neither signature nor pin under established maximum transaction amounts. mastercard worldwide network architecture and operations . we believe the architecture of the mastercard worldwide network is unique, featuring a globally integrated structure that provides scalability for our customers and enables them to expand into regional and global markets. our network also features an intelligent architecture that enables it to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures-distributed (peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke). transactions that require fast, reliable processing, such as those submitted using a contactless card or device at a toll booth, can use the network's distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred. transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point-of-sale, or customization of transaction data for unique consumer-spending controls, use the network's centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction. through the unique architecture of our network, we are able to connect all parties with respect to payments transactions regardless of whether the transaction is occurring at a traditional physical location, at an atm, on the internet or through a mobile device. the network typically operates at under 80% capacity and has the capacity to handle more than 160 million transactions per hour with an average network response time of 130 milliseconds. the network can also substantially scale capacity to meet demand. our transaction processing services are available 24 hours per day, every day of the year. our global payments network provides multiple levels of back-up protection and related continuity procedures should the issuer, acquirer or payments network experience a service interruption. moreover, the network features multiple layers of protection against hacking or other cyber-attacks. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to a failure or breach of our security systems or infrastructure as a result of cyber-attacks. we supplement this protection with mitigation efforts to strengthen our protection against such threats, both in terms of operability of the network and protection of the information transmitted through the network. to date, we have consistently maintained availability of our global processing systems more than 99.9% of the time. processing capabilities. transaction switching - authorization, clearing and settlement. we provide transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement) through the mastercard worldwide network. authorization . authorization refers to the process by which a transaction is routed to the issuer for approval and then a decision whether or not to approve the transaction is made by the issuer or, in certain circumstances such as when the issuer's systems are unavailable or cannot be contacted, by mastercard or others on behalf 7 table of contents of the issuer in accordance with either the issuer's instructions or applicable rules (also known as stand-in ). our standards, which may vary across regions, establish the circumstances under which merchants and acquirers must seek authorization of transactions. clearing . clearing refers to the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a transaction has been successfully conducted at the point of interaction. we clear transactions among customers through our processing systems. settlement . once transactions have been authorized and cleared, we help to settle the transactions by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. once clearing is completed, a daily reconciliation is provided to each customer involved in settlement, detailing the net amounts by clearing cycle and a final settlement position. the actual exchange of funds takes place between a settlement bank, designated by the customer and approved by us, and a settlement bank chosen by us. customer settlement occurs generally in u.s. dollars or in a limited number of other currencies in accordance with our established rules. cross-border and domestic processing. the mastercard worldwide network provides our customers with a flexible structure that enables them to support processing across regions and for domestic markets. the network processes transactions throughout the world on our products where the merchant country and issuer country are different (cross-border transactions). we process transactions denominated in more than 150 currencies through our global system, providing cardholders with the ability to utilize, and merchants to accept, mastercard cards and other payment devices across multiple country borders. for example, we may process a transaction in a merchant's local currency; however, the charge for the transaction would appear on the cardholder's statement in the cardholder's home currency. we also provide domestic (or intra-country) transaction processing services to customers in every region of the world, which allow customers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants within a particular country. we process most of the cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and process the majority of mastercard-branded domestic transactions in the united states, united kingdom, canada, brazil and a select number of other countries. outside of these countries, most intra-country (as opposed to cross-border) transaction activity conducted with our payment products is authorized, cleared and/or settled by our customers or other processors without the involvement of the mastercard worldwide network. we continue to invest in our network and build relationships to expand opportunities for domestic transaction processing. in particular, the single european payment area ( sepa ) initiative creates an open and competitive market in many european countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. as a result, in addition to cross-border transactions, we now process some domestic debit transactions in virtually every sepa country. extended processing capabilities. in addition to transaction switching, we continually evaluate and invest in ways to strategically extend our processing capabilities in the payments value chain by seeking to provide our customers with an expanded suite of payment processing solutions that meet the unique processing needs of their markets. examples include: mastercard integrated processing solutions . mastercard integrated processing solutions ( ips ) is a debit and prepaid issuer processing platform designed to provide medium to large global issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. through a single processing platform, ips can, among other things, authorize debit and prepaid transactions, assist issuers in managing risk using fraud detection tools, manage an issuer's card base, and manage and monitor an issuer's atms. the proprietary mastercard total portfolio view tool provides a user-friendly customer interface to ips, delivering aggregate cardholder intelligence across accounts and product lines to provide our customers with a view of information that can help them customize their products and programs. we continue to develop opportunities to further enhance our ips offerings and global presence. internet payment gateways . we provide e-commerce processing solutions through internet payment gateways, which are interfaces between merchants and acquirers that help move a transaction through the payments network. our gateways include datacash and mastercard internet gateway service (migs), which offer payment service provider solutions across the globe. these gateways offer a single interface to provide e-commerce merchants with the ability to process secure payments and offer value-added solutions, including outsourced electronic payments, fraud prevention and alternative payment options. strategic investments . we have invested strategically in various regions around the globe to pursue opportunities in issuer, prepaid, acquirer and third-party processing. these investments support and/or provide, among other 8 table of contents things, prepaid processing, acquirer processing, third-party processing services and software (as well as switching solutions) and complete processing solutions for mobile payments. acceptance as of december 31, 2012, cards carrying the mastercard logo were accepted at 35.9 million acceptance locations worldwide, including 2.1 million atms and 0.6 million other locations where cash may be obtained. information on atm and manual cash access locations is reported by our customers and is partly based on publicly available reports of payments industry associations, government agencies and independent market analysts. cards bearing the maestro or cirrus logos are accepted at many of these same locations. we seek to maintain unsurpassed acceptance of mastercard-branded programs by : increasing the categories of merchants that accept products carrying our brands - in addition to expanding acceptance in e-commerce and mobile commerce environments, we leverage the functionality of the mastercard worldwide network to expand acceptance in quick service businesses (such as fast food restaurants) and transportation (such as commuter train systems, buses and taxis) using our contactless technology, as well as public sector payments (such as those involving taxes, fees, fines and tolls), among other categories. increasing the number of payment channels in which mastercard programs are accepted - we continue to introduce mastercard acceptance in connection with bill payment. we are working with customers to encourage consumers to make bill payments in a variety of categories including rent, utilities and insurance with their mastercard products. increasing the number of small merchants and merchants in established accepting categories who have not historically accepted mastercard products - we enable parties like square, izettle, intuit and others to provide acceptance to smaller merchants through connected devices (such as card readers), displacing cash. our payment facilitator program was specifically designed to enable such parties. increasing usage of our programs at selected merchants - we sponsor a wide range of promotional programs on a global basis. we also enter into arrangements with selected merchants under which these merchants receive performance incentives for the increased use of mastercard programs or indicating a preference for mastercard-branded programs when accepting payments from consumers. mastercard programs and solutions our principal payment programs and solutions, which are facilitated through our brands, include consumer credit and charge, debit, prepaid and commercial programs and solutions and emerging payments solutions (including digital and mobile money platforms). our issuer customers determine the competitive features for the cards and other products issued under our programs, including interest rates and fees. we determine other aspects of our programs, such as required services and the marketing strategy, in order to help ensure consistency. consumer credit and charge. we offer a number of consumer credit and charge programs that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. for the year ended december 31, 2012, our consumer credit and charge programs generated $1.8 trillion in gdv globally, representing 50% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2012, the mastercard logo appeared on 686 million consumer credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 5% increase from december 31, 2011. we offer customized programs around the world to address specific consumer segments. our consumer credit programs include: standard - general purpose products targeted to entry level consumers with basic credit card needs. standard products provide payment solutions featuring revolving credit, security and everyday convenience. premium - products designed for emerging affluent consumers and featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying level of enhanced services, including insurance coverage and access benefits. affluent - product offerings which feature our highest purchasing capacity, as well as a comprehensive range of premium access benefits and top-tier services, and travel, concierge and cardholder protection insurances in some regions. these products are specifically designed to target the needs of the most affluent segments worldwide. 9 table of contents debit. we support a range of payment solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds in deposit accounts and other accounts. our debit and deposit access programs may have the mastercard, maestro and/or cirrus logos, and can be used to obtain cash in bank branches or at atms. in addition, mastercard and maestro-branded debit products may be used to make purchases and, in some cases, to obtain cash back at the point of sale. mastercard-branded debit card. mastercard-branded debit programs provide functionality for both signature-based and pin-based authenticated transactions. for the year ended december 31, 2012, our mastercard-branded debit programs generated $1.5 trillion in gdv globally, representing 42% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2012, the mastercard logo appeared on 436 million debit cards worldwide, representing 21% growth from december 31, 2011. maestro-branded debit card. maestro is our global pin-based debit program, and is the only pin-based solution that operates globally. as of december 31, 2012, the maestro logo appeared on 743 million cards worldwide, representing 4% growth from december 31, 2011. maestro has a leading position among pin-based debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in europe. the strong presence of maestro in europe positions us well as the sepa initiative creates a more open and competitive payments market in many european countries that had been previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. the global acceptance of maestro contributes to the growth of our debit business and adds value to the services that we provide to our customers. mastercard global atm solutions. cirrus is our primary global cash access brand. mastercard global atm solutions provides domestic (in-country) and cross-border access for varied types of transactions, including cash withdrawal (deposit accounts), cash advance (credit accounts), cash drawdown (prepaid accounts), balance inquiries, account transfers and deposits at atms that participate in the mastercard worldwide network. prepaid. prepaid programs involve a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. cardholders access funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card or other device (such as mobile) that may leverage our contactless functionality. mastercard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands. we provide processing services (including transaction switching) in support of either magnetic stripe or chip-enabled prepaid programs. we provide and customize programs to meet unique commercial and consumer needs in all prepaid segments, including programs such as general purpose reloadable, employee benefit, payroll, travel, incentive, government disbursement programs and gift cards. in particular, we focus on three categories: government, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in government programs such as social security payments, unemployment benefits and others; commercial, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in business applications such as payroll, health savings accounts and others; and consumer reloadable, which includes programs to address the payment needs of individuals without formal banking relationships, individuals who are not traditional users of credit or debit cards or devices or individuals who want to segment funds for security or convenience purposes, such as travel. we also provide prepaid card program management services through access prepaid worldwide ( access ). through access, we manage and deliver consumer and commercial prepaid travel cards to business partners around the world, including financial institutions, retailers, travel agents and foreign exchange bureaus. combined with mastercard's processing assets (such as ips) and other strategic alliances, these services augment and support issuers of prepaid cards around the world, with a focus outside of the united states. access enables us to offer end-to-end prepaid solutions encompassing branded switching, issuer processing and program management services, primarily focused on the travel sector. commercial. we offer commercial payment solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and government entities to streamline their procurement and payment processes, manage information and expenses and reduce administrative costs. for the year ended december 31, 2012, our commercial credit and charge programs generated $287 billion in gdv globally, representing 8% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2012, the mastercard brand mark appeared on 36 million commercial credit and charge cards worldwide, representing an 8% increase from december 31, 2011. we offer various commercial payment programs and value-added services, including corporate cards, corporate premium cards, corporate purchasing cards and fleet cards (as well as the mastercard corporate multi card , which combines the functionality of one or more of these cards) that allow corporations to, among other things, manage travel and entertainment expenses, streamline the procurement process and provide corporations with additional transactional detail. among the platforms we provide is smartdata, 10 table of contents a mastercard-powered tool which provides information reporting and expense management capabilities. we also offer government entities a variety of payment programs that are similar to the procurement, travel, purchasing, fleet and multi card programs offered to corporations. credit and debit programs targeted at the small-business segment offer business owners the ability to gain access to working capital, to extend payments and to separate business expenses from personal expenses. emerging payments and innovation. we focus on innovation to enhance our current programs and extend our products and services to customers (including merchants, telecommunications companies and government entities) and into new geographies. we have a global innovation group, mastercard labs, which is dedicated to developing new and innovative products and solutions for our customers and our cardholders. this group incubates new product concepts, builds prototypes, runs pilots and is designed for a rapid evaluation process. we offer innovative platforms, services and technologies aligned around the following strategic areas: digital infrastructure. the continued adoption of connected devices (such as mobile smartphones, pcs, and tablet devices) has resulted in the ongoing convergence of the physical and digital worlds, where consumers are increasingly transacting across a range of connected devices in a variety of contexts - in-store, online and on tablets and mobile devices. to support this convergence, we have developed a digital platform that is designed to allow customers, merchants and others to provide a consistent, fast and secure shopping experience for consumers, whether at a register, or on a pc, tablet or mobile device. the platform is also focused on generating more value and increased sales for merchants (including building preference and loyalty), and delivering new revenue streams and competitive advantages for mastercard and our customers. we also work with strategic partners to enable consumers to securely use their smartphones to make contactless payments and obtain other related services. we have worked with multiple customers globally to launch digital wallet solutions powered by our mobile contactless technology. in addition, we are supporting the pilot launch of isis (a joint venture formed in the united states by at&amp;t, verizon and t-mobile). also, in december 2012, we made a minority investment in c-sam, a global mobile wallet software provider. mobile money infrastructure. we provide a platform and various services to customers and other parties to enable consumers to pay from any type of mobile phone (and in particular, feature phones). these services include linking mobile accounts to virtual mastercard account numbers, allowing subscribers (many of whom do not have traditional payment cards) to shop online, enabling person-to-person transfers (including our money transfer solution, mastercard moneysend ) on behalf of our customers for consumers using mobile devices, and enabling mobile subscribers to send payments to handsets of merchants who otherwise do not accept electronic payments. mobile money services are provided through the mastercard mobile payments gateway, operated through our mobile payments solutions joint venture with smart hub. the gateway is a turnkey mobile payment processing platform that facilitates transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions for our customers. in addition, we continue to commercialize our two joint ventures with telefonica to provide consumers with mobile payments services in multiple countries across latin america. chip and contactless solutions . we continue to work with our customers around the world to help them replace their traditional magnetic-stripe based cards and terminals with new chip-enabled products that offer increased security and fraud protection as well as opportunities for new functions and value-added services. emv chip development and solutions. our chip solutions are developed in accordance with the emv standard (the international standard for chip technology); we play a leading role in the evolution of the standard via our role as part owner of, and a key contributor to, emvco (the industry governing body of the emv specifications). as we broaden our chip technology deployments into new markets, we remain focused on maintaining global interoperability (a key feature of the mastercard brand), reducing potential fraud and increasing security. customers in all regions are actively progressing chip programs with significant numbers of new cards and terminals being deployed. in january 2012, we endorsed emv as the payments platform technology for the u.s. market and are now engaged at all levels in the industry to bring the benefits of this technology to our u.s. customers and consumers. contactless payment solutions . we leverage the chip platform to drive new, scalable consumer experiences and business opportunities for our customers. in particular, our chip technology facilitates both contactless and mobile payments, which both enable consumers and merchants to transact in new ways leveraging our chip-enabled acceptance and network infrastructure. mastercard paypass , our contactless payment solution, utilizes radio frequency, or near-field communication (nfc) technology, to securely transmit payment details wirelessly from payment devices to paypass-branded contactless-enabled payment terminals for processing through the mastercard worldwide network. this technology enables consumers simply to tap their payment card or other payment device, such as a key fob, wristband or tag that adheres 11 table of contents to the back of a mobile device, on a paypass-enabled terminal to complete a transaction. our mobile contactless payment solution, mastercard mobile paypass, has been designed to enable consumers to use their mobile devices in a similar way by integrating the necessary hardware and software into the mobile device itself. our paypass program primarily targets everyday purchases that rely on speed and convenience (such as supermarkets, fast food restaurants, parking and transit). as of december 31, 2012, paypass programs had rolled out in nearly 50 countries worldwide. value-added services and solutions we offer a variety of services and solutions across our business, designed to support and enhance our programs and solutions: mastercard advisors . mastercard advisors is our global professional services group which provides proprietary analysis, data-driven consulting and marketing services solutions to help clients optimize, streamline and grow their businesses. it differentiates us from our competitors by transforming data we collect into actionable insights for our customers and other clients. we provide services based on this data through three business lines: information services, consulting services, and managed services. information services provides a suite of data analytics and products (including reports, benchmarks, models and forecasts) to a diversified customer base, enabling them to make better business decisions. consulting services combines professional problem-solving skills with payments expertise to provide solutions that address the challenges and opportunities of customers with respect to their payments business, and help to maximize the value of that business. managed services provides executional and turnkey solutions via data-driven acquisition of accounts, activation of portfolios, conversion of cards, marketing promotions activities and other customer management services. we charge customers and other clients fees for these professional services, which often add value to our other products. authorization, routing and alert controls . mastercard incontrol is an innovative platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert controls and virtual card number capabilities that uses the functionality of the mastercard worldwide network and is designed to assist financial institutions in creating new and enhanced payment offerings. fraud prevention and detection services . we offer several fraud detection and prevention solutions focused on enhancing safety for consumers. these solutions include mastercard expert monitoring solutions , a comprehensive suite of services designed to help our customers detect and prevent fraudulent activity, and datacash fraud prevention tools for e-commerce merchants. loyalty and rewards solutions . we focus on providing value for consumers on mastercard payment cards and devices through a combination of benefits and services both paid for and arranged by mastercard on behalf of our customers. we work together with issuers, merchants and other customers to help them increase the value they provide to consumers by providing scalable technology platforms and supporting them with program management capability. in doing so, we provide issuers and merchants with services across all types of payment cards and devices, while providing additional value to cardholders. our suite of services for issuers include a scalable rewards platform that enables issuers to provide their consumers with personalized offers and rewards, access to a global airline lounge network, global and local concierge services, a wide range of individual insurance coverages, emergency card replacement, emergency cash advance services and a 24-hour cardholder service center to provide information related to benefits and rewards programs. our suite of services for merchants include a targeted offers and rewards campaign management service for publishing offers, as well as opportunities for holders of a co-brand or merchants loyalty card or a member of a third-party-managed rewards program to obtain reward points faster. marketing we manage and promote our brands through advertising, promotions, sponsorships and digital, mobile and social media initiatives. these efforts support our strategic vision of an environment where electronic payment is the predominant form of payment. our marketing activities combine advertising, sponsorships, promotions, digital, mobile and social media, public relations and issuer and merchant engagement as part of an integrated program designed to increase consumer preference for our brands and usage of our products. we also seek to tailor our global marketing messages by customizing them in individual countries. our initiatives are designed to build the value of the mastercard brand and enhance stockholder value. our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall preference among cardholders globally. our award-winning priceless advertising campaign has run in 53 languages in 112 countries worldwide. the priceless campaign promotes mastercard usage benefits and acceptance that permit cardholders to pay for what they need, when they need it as well as marketing mastercard credit, debit, prepaid and commercial products and solutions. it also provides mastercard 12 table of contents with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand around the globe. we continue to refine our consumer marketing approach, including by placing greater strategic focus on consumers' spending preferences. for example, priceless cities is a global program intended to increase preference for the mastercard brand by connecting consumers to their interests by offering them access to special experiences and offers when they are at home or traveling. mastercard launched priceless cities in 2011 in three cities - new york, london and toronto - and in 2012 the program was extended to include more than 20 cities across all of our regions. we continue to support our brand by using digital, mobile and social channels to allow us to engage more directly with our stakeholders and allow consumers and customers to engage directly in programs, promotions and merchant offers, as well as provide relevant information on mastercard products, services and tools. mastercard has also introduced both global and region-specific smart phone applications, including mastercard's atm hunter , mastercard easy savings , paypass locator, mcompass, and budget pilot that provide consumers with on-the-go utility. mastercard continues to use digital and mobile channels and social media to develop preference and usage with consumers and more effectively partner with customers and merchants to help them drive their respective businesses. for example, we have used facebook to run our priceless music programs which offer music benefits and music mobile applications to mastercard cardholders in australia and mexico. we also seek to deliver value to customers and consumers through the sponsorship of a variety of sporting, entertainment and charity-related marketing properties. we have partnerships with major league baseball, the pga tour, the union of european football association champions league, the walt disney company in europe, the grammy awards and the brit awards. in 2012, we continued and expanded our partnership with stand up to cancer, which ties mastercard cardholder use of mastercard cards and other payment devices in restaurants and online to our donations to cancer research. we also entered into a sponsorship partnership in 2012 with the brazilian football confederation, brazil's national football team. also in 2012, we entered into a sponsorship partnership with sonoma state university in northern california to sponsor its new performing arts center. our approach to sponsorship assets aligns with consumer segments important to us and our customers. customer and stakeholder relationship management we are committed to providing issuers and acquirers, merchants, governments, telecommunications companies and other parties that play a role in the payments industry with coordinated services that leverage our expertise in payment programs, product development, technology, processing, consulting and information services and marketing. we manage our relationships with our customers and other parties (including processors and other third parties) on a global and regional basis, to ensure that their priorities are consistently identified and incorporated into our product, brand, processing, technology and related strategies, and to ensure we provide value to them. issuers and acquirers . in addition to the many ways described above that we provide value to issuers and acquirers, we enter into business agreements which provide customers with financial incentives and other support benefits to issue, accept, route, prioritize and promote our branded products and other payment programs. these financial incentives may be based on gdv or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new payment products, increased acceptance of our products, launch of new programs or execution of marketing initiatives. we believe that our business agreements with these customers have contributed to our volume and revenue growth in recent years. merchants. merchants are an important constituency in the mastercard payments system and we are working to further develop and enhance our relationships with them, and provide value to merchants of all sizes. our core programs enable merchants to receive secure and timely payments from cardholders across the globe. we provide merchants with solutions that help to increase revenues, enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies and address fraud. for example, we provide merchants the opportunity to increase revenue through the suite of information, consulting and managed services offered by mastercard advisors, which can help them understand specific activity in their industry, evaluate their sales performance against competitors and focus direct marketing efforts. we enable merchants to build a recurring relationship with their customers through products and solutions such as reloadable prepaid solutions, as well as, in some circumstances, licensing them directly as issuers. through our priceless cities platform, we work with merchants to build consumer affection and deepen their existing customer relationships. in terms of enabling new sales channels, we give merchants a way to accept payments through channels like mobile, and help merchants create better purchase experiences through platforms such as our digital platform supporting payments in-store, online and on tablets and mobile devices. we can also help merchants improve efficiencies with solutions such as our contactless technology and our internet payment gateways. merchants can address fraud concerns with fraud detection and prevention solutions like our expert monitoring system. finally, we provide merchant forums and anti-piracy programs to inform, educate and share information with merchants on topics that are relevant to them such as fraud. despite these opportunities, we also face challenges in our relationships with merchants. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. in particular, large merchants have supported 13 table of contents many of the litigation, legislative and regulatory challenges related to interchange fees that mastercard and others in the industry have been defending against. this includes the u.s. merchant litigations as to which the company recently entered into a settlement agreement (subject to final court approval). see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to merchants' continued focus on the costs of accepting electronic forms of payment. governments . we work closely with national, state and local governments (including regulators and agencies) around the world to not only help shape payments regulation, but to work together strategically with governments to help them provide safe, efficient and transparent ways to serve their payment needs and that of their people. we provide governments with solutions that help them reduce costs, gain efficiencies, curtail fraud and corruption and advance social programs. we work with governments to reduce costs by providing electronic payment solutions that save the expense of producing, managing and disbursing currency. in addition, we help drive government efficiency by providing ways to eliminate paper systems, implement identification solutions, manage social payments, improve procurement (through travel and entertainment, procurement cards and purchasing payment automation) and deploy improved transit payment options (using chip and our contactless technology). we also work with governments to provide them with more efficient ways to deliver social benefits (including through prepaid cards), as well as products and solutions to help reduce errors and curtail fraud. our products and programs can help governments drive financial inclusion by providing initial or improved access to financial services for the underbanked. we work with governments to provide payment solutions such as reloadable, prepaid or debit payroll or other social benefit cards (including cards to aid victims of natural disasters) and products and solutions that enable mobile commerce payments. mastercard revenue sources we generate revenues by charging fees to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on gdv on the cards and other devices that carry our brands. accordingly, our revenues are impacted both by the number of transactions that we process and by the use of cards and other devices carrying our brands. our net revenues are classified into the following five categories: domestic assessments: domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the volume of activity on cards and other devices that carry our brands where the merchant country and the issuer country are the same. cross-border volume fees: cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the volume of activity on cards and other devices that carry our brands where the merchant country and issuer country are different. transaction processing fees: transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and are primarily based on the number of transactions. other revenues: other revenues for other payment-related services include fees associated with fraud products and services, cardholder service fees, consulting and research fees, program management service fees and a variety of other payment-related services. rebates and incentives (contra-revenue): rebates and incentives are provided to certain mastercard customers and are recorded as contra-revenue in the same period that performance occurs. our pricing is complex and is dependent on the nature of the volumes, types of transactions and other products and services we offer to our customers. the following factors impact the pricing: domestic or cross-border signature-based or pin-based tiered rates that fluctuate based on volume/transaction hurdles geographic region or country retail purchase or cash withdrawal processed or not processed on the mastercard worldwide network in general, a cross-border transaction generates higher revenue than a domestic transaction since cross-border fees are higher than domestic fees, and in most cases also include fees for currency conversion. we review our pricing and implement pricing changes on an ongoing basis. in addition, standard pricing varies among our regions, and such standard pricing can be modified 14 table of contents for our customers through customer-specific incentive and rebate agreements. revenues from processing cross-border transactions fluctuate with cross-border activities. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to cross-border travel. in 2012, net revenues from our five largest customers accounted for approximately $1.8 billion , or 24% of our total revenue. no single customer generated greater than 10% of total revenue. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - revenues in part ii, item 7 for more detail. gdv and processed transactions the tables below provide information regarding two key drivers of our revenue: (1) gdv, which forms the basis of volume-based revenues, and (2) processed transactions. gdv. the gdv table below provides information regarding the gdv for all mastercard-branded cards (excluding cirrus and maestro) and for both mastercard credit and charge programs and mastercard debit and prepaid programs in all of our regions for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 . growth rates are provided on both a u.s. dollar and local currency basis for the periods indicated. gdv represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made and cash disbursements obtained with mastercard-branded cards and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks. year-over-year growth year ended december 31, 2012 u.s. $ local currency 2 year ended december 31, 2011 3 (in billions, except percentages) mastercard branded gdv 1 all mastercard branded programs asia pacific/middle east/africa $ 980 21 % 23 % $ 808 canada 127 7 % 8 % 119 europe 1,071 9 % 16 % 979 latin america 302 9 % 19 % 276 worldwide less united states 2,480 14 % 19 % 2,183 united states 1,167 9 % 9 % 1,069 worldwide $ 3,647 12 % 15 % $ 3,252 all mastercard credit and charge programs worldwide less united states $ 1,558 11 % 15 % $ 1,399 united states 562 4 % 4 % 543 worldwide $ 2,120 9 % 12 % $ 1,942 all mastercard debit and prepaid programs worldwide less united states $ 923 18 % 25 % $ 784 united states 604 15 % 15 % 526 worldwide $ 1,527 17 % 21 % $ 1,310 * note that figures in the above table may not sum due to rounding. 1 gdv generated by maestro and cirrus cards is not included. the data for gdv is provided by mastercard customers and includes information with respect to mastercard-branded transactions that are not processed by mastercard and for which mastercard does not earn significant revenues. all data is subject to revision and amendment by mastercard's customers subsequent to the date of its release, which revisions and amendments may be material. 2 local currency growth eliminates the impact of currency fluctuations and represents local market performance. 3 in 2012, certain gdv from the europe region has been reclassified from all mastercard credit and charge programs to all mastercard debit and prepaid programs. the 2011 amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with this presentation. there is no impact at the all mastercard programs level. 15 table of contents processed transactions. the table below sets forth the total number of transactions processed by mastercard for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 : year ended december 31, 2012 year-over-year growth year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions, except percentages) processed transactions 34,156 25% 27,265 participation standards we establish and enforce our standards surrounding participation in mastercard and the use and acceptance of cards carrying our brands. rulemaking and application of standards participation in the mastercard payments network is generally open to financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. applicants for participation must meet specified requirements. in general, we grant licenses by territory to applicants that meet those specified criteria. licenses provide customers with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of our brands. anti-money laundering due diligence reviews and customer risk management reviews are conducted on all new customers prior to issuing a license and existing customers are evaluated applying a risk-based approach. all customers must meet the requirements of our anti-money laundering program, and we can suspend and ultimately terminate participation for non-compliance with the program. as a condition of our licenses, customers agree to comply with our standards, which include requirements in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, policies, rules and operating regulations and procedures. mastercard and certain of our affiliates are the governing bodies that establish and apply our standards, which relate to topics such as participation eligibility and financial soundness criteria; the standards, design and features of cards and card programs; the use of our trademarks; merchant acquiring activities (including acceptance standards applicable to merchants); and guaranteed settlement and customer failures. customer risk management we guarantee the settlement of many of the transactions between our issuers and acquirers to ensure the integrity of our network ("settlement exposure"). we do not, however, guarantee payments to merchants by their acquirer, or the availability of unspent prepaid cardholder balances held by the issuer. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal customers, we are exposed to customer credit risk arising from the potential financial failure of any principal customers of mastercard, maestro and cirrus, and affiliate debit licensees. our gross settlement exposure for mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded transactions, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $38 billion as of december 31, 2012 . principal customers participate directly in mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate customers. to minimize the contingent risk to mastercard of a failure of a customer to meet its settlement obligations, we monitor the financial health of, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our standards by, our principal customers, affiliate debit licensees and other entities to which we grant licenses. if the financial condition of a customer or the state of the economy or political environment in which it operates indicates that it may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us or to our customers, or its payment obligations to mastercard merchants, or its obligations to safeguard funds for prepaid cardholders, we may require the customer to make operational changes and/or post collateral. this collateral is typically in the form of a standby letter of credit, a bank guarantee or a secured cash account and is required to mitigate our exposure. as of december 31, 2012 , we had customers who had posted approximately $3.8 billion in collateral held for settlement exposure. if a customer becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us or other customers, we are able to draw upon such customer's collateral, if provided, in order to minimize any potential loss to ourselves or our customers. in addition to obtaining collateral from customers, in situations where a customer is potentially unable to meet its obligations to us or other customers, we can suspend and ultimately terminate participation in our network. additionally, and to further preserve payment system integrity, we reserve the right to terminate a customer's right to participate in our network if, for example, the customer fails or refuses to make payments in the ordinary course of business, or if a liquidating agent, conservator or receiver is appointed for the customer or the customer is insolvent. in addition to these measures, we have also established a $3 billion committed credit facility to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of customer settlement failure. see our risk 16 table of contents factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to our role as guarantor of certain third-party obligations. see also our risk factor related to the impact of unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world. payment system integrity the integrity of our payment system can be affected by fraudulent activity and illegal uses of our products and our system. fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or stolen account information, often resulting from security breaches of third-party systems that insufficiently protect cardholder data that they store, process or transmit. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to account data breaches. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as e-commerce, mobile commerce, mail order and telephone order transactions. security and cardholder authentication for these remote channels are particularly critical issues facing our customers and merchants who engage in these forms of commerce, where a signed cardholder sales receipt, verification through use of a pin or the presence of the card or payment device (along with the embedded security features) or merchant agent is unavailable. we monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our standards to combat fraudulent activity. we also operate several compliance programs to help ensure that the integrity of our payment system is maintained by our customers and their agents. key compliance programs include merchant audits (for high fraud, excessive chargebacks and processing of illegal transactions) and security compliance (including our mastercard site data protection service , which assists customers, merchants and third-party service providers in protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and subsequent account data compromises) by requiring proper adherence to the payment card industry data security standards (pci dss) and other pci standards designed to secure payment application and terminals. our customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so we can monitor trends and initiate action where appropriate. our customers generally are responsible for fraud losses associated with the products they issue and the merchants from which they acquire transactions. however, we have implemented a series of programs and systems to aid them in detecting and preventing the fraudulent use of mastercard products. we provide education programs and various risk management tools to help prevent fraud and ensure safety, including: mastercard securecode , a global internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code; our site data protection program to advance adherence to the pci dss and other pci standards; our global vendor certification program (gvcp) to ensure card manufacturers comply with mastercard-defined physical and logistical security requirements; our compliance assessment and security testing (cast) program to ensure integrated circuit card and secure elements used in smart cards and mobile payment devices are evaluated against known and state of the art attack scenarios; and fraud detection and prevention solutions, including our suite of fraud management products and services, expert monitoring solutions, and datacash fraud prevention tools for e-commerce merchants. enterprise risk management we face a number of risks in operating our business (for a description of material risks, see risk factors in part i, item 1a of this report). managing risk is an integral component of our business activities and the degree to which we manage risk is vital to our financial condition and profitability. we have an enterprise risk management ( erm ) program which is integrated with the business and designed to ensure appropriate and comprehensive oversight and management of end-to-end risk. the erm program leverages our business processes to, among other things, ensure: allocation of resources to appropriately address risk; establishment of clear accountability for risk management; and provision of transparency of risks to senior management (including our risk management committee), the board of directors and appropriate board committees. our erm program seeks to accomplish these goals by: identifying, prioritizing and monitoring key risks; providing an independent view of our risks; and strengthening business operations by integrating erm principles and continuing to create a risk aware culture within mastercard. our integrated risk management structure balances risk and return by having business units and central functions (such as finance and law) identify, own and manage risks, our executive officers set policy and accountability and our board of directors and its committees provide oversight of the process. 17 table of contents intellectual property we own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including mastercard , maestro and cirrus , through one or more affiliates. we also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by mastercard to support our payment programs. trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained. through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers' card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. in addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. patents are of varying duration depending on the jurisdiction and filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term. competition general. our programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); card-based and other electronic payments systems and solutions, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use programs; contactless, mobile and web-based payment platforms; and other electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. as a result of a global trend, electronic forms of payment such as payment cards are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment, and card brands such as mastercard, visa, american express and discover are benefiting from this displacement. however, cash and checks still capture the largest overall percentage of worldwide payment volume. cash and check . cash and check continue to represent the most widely used forms of payment. approximately 85% of all payment transactions are represented by paper-based transactions with cash or check. payment card, processing and alternative competitors. general purpose payment card industry. within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa (including plus , electron and interlink ), american express and discover, among others. within the global general purpose payment card industry, visa has significantly greater volume than we do. outside of the united states, some of our competitors such as jcb in japan and unionpay in china have leading positions in their domestic markets. regulation can also play a role in determining competitive market advantages for competitors. for example, unionpay is the sole domestic processor designated by the chinese government and operates the sole national cross-bank bankcard information switch network in china as a result of local regulation (although the world trade organization's ruling that china's domestic processing industry is a monopoly could open the domestic payments marketplace). some governments, such as india and russia, are promoting local networks for domestic processing and there are similar developments in other countries. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a related to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries. particular segments. we face competition with respect to particular segments of the payments industry, including: debit. we encounter substantial and increasingly intense competition from atm and point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as interlink, plus and visa electron (owned by visa inc.), star (owned by first data corporation), nyce (owned by fis), and pulse (owned by discover), in the united states; interac in canada; eftpos in australia; and bankserv in south africa. in addition, in many countries outside of the united states, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume. pin-based debit transactions. our business and revenues could be adversely impacted in the united states by a tendency among u.s. merchants to migrate from signature-based debit transactions to pin-based debit transactions because we generally earn less revenue from pin-based debit transactions. in addition, visa's competitive response to the limitations presented in the united states by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the "dodd-frank act") could potentially reduce our pin debit volumes. private-label. private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or other types of merchants, also serve as another form of competition. end-to-end payments networks. our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payments networks, such as american express and discover, that have direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships 18 table of contents with cardholders. these competitors have certain competitive advantages over four-party payments systems such as ours. among other things, because these competitors provide an end-to-end service, they do not require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs between the issuing and acquiring sides of their business, even though they have the ability to internally transfer costs in a manner similar to interchange fees. as a result, to date, operators of end-to-end payments networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face. competition for customer business . we compete intensely with other payments networks for customer business. globally, financial institutions typically issue both mastercard and visa-branded payment cards, and we compete with visa for business on the basis of individual card portfolios or programs. in addition, a number of our customers issue american express and/or discover-branded payment cards in a manner consistent with a four-party system. we also compete for new business partners with whom we seek to work, such as merchants, government agencies and telecommunication companies. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to the substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. our ability to compete in the global payments industry for customer business can be affected by the outcome of litigation, regulatory proceedings and legislative activity. for example, in october 2011, the federal reserve implemented regulations, pursuant to the enactment into law of the dodd-frank act, prohibiting arrangements under which a debit card or prepaid card can be processed only by one network (or only by a group of affiliated networks). the dodd-frank act also prohibits any restrictions on a merchant's ability to route a transaction over any one of the networks that is enabled on a debit card or prepaid card. these events have resulted in challenges, as well as potential opportunities to compete for business in this area. transaction processors . we face competition from transaction processors throughout the world, such as first data corporation and total system services, inc., some of which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment transaction authorization and processing services. certain of these transaction processors could potentially displace us as the provider of these payment processing services. new entrants and alternative payments systems . we also compete against relatively new entrants and alternative payment providers, such as paypal (a business segment of ebay), which have developed payments systems in e-commerce, across mobile devices and in physical store locations. internet payments is an increasingly competitive area, with paypal as an established and important player and a proliferation of new online competitors. among other services, these competitors provide internet payment services that can be used to buy and sell goods online, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts for internet, mobile commerce and other applications. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet and potential wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. additionally, paypal has been expanding to a presence in physical locations. specifically, paypal's partnership with discover financial services will provide paypal with access to discover's network and several million merchant locations in the united states, with the potential to expand globally in the future. the electronic payments industry is also facing changes in services and technology related to mobile payments and emerging competition from mobile operators and handset manufacturers. micro-payments on social networks such as facebook are relatively small today, but have the potential to grow rapidly, representing the potential for competition from a new payment form. financial institution customers . pricing. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers. we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of rebates and incentives we provide to our customers and merchants, as we have in the last several years. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a related to the increasingly intense competitive pressure we face on the prices we charge our customers. banking industry consolidation. the banking industry has undergone substantial accelerated consolidation over the last several years, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a substantial loss of business for us. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which we have a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which generally have a greater ability to negotiate pricing discounts with us. consolidations could prompt our customers to renegotiate our business agreements to obtain more favorable terms. this pressure on the prices we charge our customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry. 19 table of contents competitive position. we believe that the principal factors influencing our competitive position in the global payments industry are: the ability to develop and implement competitive new electronic payment programs, systems and technologies in both physical and digital environments; the ability to participate in new payment forms; customer relationships; the impact of existing and future litigation, legislation and government regulation; the impact of globalization and consolidation of financial institutions and merchants; the acceptance base, reputation and brand recognition of payment cards; pricing; the success and scope of marketing and promotional campaigns; the quality, security and integrity of transaction processing; the relative value of services and products offered; and the impact of new market entrants. government regulation general. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in the last several years, including in the united states. regulators in several countries outside of the united states have also become increasingly interested in payment issues, a number of which have launched official proceedings related to payments industry issues. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a of this report. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions around the world. examples include: legislation, including resulting regulations (such as regulations implemented in october 2011 by the federal reserve in accordance with the dodd-frank act, which set limits on debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees ); competition-related regulatory proceedings (such as the european commission's december 2007 decision restricting our cross-border interchange fees, which is pending appeal, as well as proceedings in several jurisdictions, including canada and european union member states); central bank regulation (such as in australia); and litigation (such as the merchant litigations in the united states and private lawsuits in canada and the united kingdom). for more detail, see our risk factors in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the dodd-frank act. also see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. no-surcharge rules. we have historically implemented policies in certain regions that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. several jurisdictions have indicated interest in either ending or limiting the application of these no-surcharge rules. in particular, the reserve bank of australia (the rba ) had enacted regulations prohibiting the networks from enforcing no-surcharge rules. in december 2011, the rba indicated that it would consider allowing certain limitations to a merchant's ability to surcharge. our no-surcharge rules in canada have also been challenged by the canadian competition bureau. in addition to other action being taken in this area, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation we entered into in october 2012 (and subject to final court approval), in january 2013 we modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. 20 table of contents data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states, the european union and elsewhere. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission's information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. certain of our customers in the united states are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. as part of their compliance with the requirements, each of our u.s. customers is expected to have a program in place for responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to customers. regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of these laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. in europe, the european parliament and council is in the process of revising the european directive 95/46/ec (the directive ), which provides for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. the revised regulation may increase the obligations of controllers (entities that have the data relationship with an individual) and processors that handle an individual's personal data requiring additional technical and operational measures to protect personal data. these and other legislative and regulatory changes, as well as the manner in which such laws could be interpreted and applied, may be inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in changes to our data practices and could impact such aspects of our business as fraud monitoring and the development of information-based products and solutions. the cost and operational consequences of implementing new and/or additional data protection measures could be significant. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security. anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism. mastercard and other participants in the payments industry are also subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352 of the usa patriot act, which requires us to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering ( aml ) program and imposes similar requirements on our financial institution customers in the united states. we are subject to the aml laws and regulations of india and the activities of our internet payments gateway and prepaid card program management services are also subject to u.s. and other countries' aml laws and regulations. we have an aml compliance program to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. the program is comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer and providing for the training of appropriate personnel regarding aml responsibilities. we are subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) restricting financial transactions and other dealings with cuba, iran, syria and sudan and with persons and entities included in ofac's list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). cuba, iran, syria and sudan have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries and do not license financial institutions domiciled in these countries. we have established a risk-based compliance program that includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to protect us against having business dealings with prohibited countries, individuals or entities. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the sdn list; however, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system and that our reputation may suffer due to our customer financial institutions' association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions. financial industry regulation . we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers. certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council ( ffiec ) under its authority to examine financial institutions' technology service providers. examinations by the ffiec cover areas such as data integrity and data security. additionally, in july 2010, as part of the dodd-frank act, the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) was created. the cfpb has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. it is not entirely clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) in order to identify risks to the financial stability of the united states that could arise from the material financial distress or failure of, or ongoing activities by, large, interconnected bank holding companies or nonbank financial companies. among other responsibilities, the fsoc is tasked with identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems that are systemically important under the applicable statutory standard. under the dodd-frank act, such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. to date, mastercard has not been designated systemically important. however, the imposition of any additional regulatory or other obligations on mastercard could result in costly new compliance burdens that could negatively impact our business. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a related to the dodd-frank act. 21 table of contents retail payments system regulation . regulators in several countries such as australia, mexico, colombia, india, singapore, russia, ukraine and indonesia have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries. such authority includes, or could include, providing broad regulatory oversight over retail payments system operators to the central banks in such countries, and could result in regulation of various aspects of the payments system. for example, india has created a national domestic debit switch and has created a licensing regime with oversight over all payments system operators in india. in belgium, mastercard europe is subject to oversight as a retail payments system operator in europe by the national bank of belgium pursuant to standards published by the european central bank that are principally targeted at managing financial, legal and operations risk. additionally, in the european union, the european commission announced its intention to propose legislation in the second quarter of 2013 that addresses several elements of the payments industry. national payments systems . governments in some countries may act to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payment card and processing providers or may create a domestic payment provider. this action could develop due to a country's broad oversight of retail payments systems, such as in russia, ukraine and india. it could also develop as a result of legislative activity. this action could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a related to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments or processing services in certain countries. issuer practice regulation. our customers are subject to numerous regulations and legislation applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and elsewhere in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, and as a consequence mastercard is impacted by such regulations. for example, in the united states in 2009, the federal reserve adopted regulations addressing overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. additionally, the cfpb launched an investigation into bank overdraft practices in 2012, and it remains to be seen whether the cfpb investigation will result in further regulation in this area. any new regulation in this area may further restrict the ability of our customers to charge overdraft fees in connection with debit programs, which may diminish the attractiveness of debit card programs to our customers and adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues. additionally, regulation of issuer practices around the world include regulation of the issuance of prepaid cards. in germany, additional consumer information is required in connection with prepaid transactions, which could restrict the issuance of prepaid cards. in india, prepaid cards not associated with a bank cannot be issued. any similar regulation restricting issuance of prepaid cards and devices could directly impact our business and our volumes. regulation of internet transactions . in october 2006, the u.s. congress enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payments system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. the federal law requires us and our customers to implement compliance programs. also, congress may consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate internet gambling that could increase our costs and/or could decrease our transaction volumes. in addition, the u.s. congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. some u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. new requirements and developments may affect our customers' ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers' ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as premium and prepaid cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenue and revenue growth. seasonality see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-seasonality in part ii, item 7 of this report. financial information about geographic areas see note 21 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for certain geographic financial information. 22 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2012, we employed approximately 7,500 persons, of which approximately 3,400 were employed outside of the united states. we consider our relationship with employees to be good. additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware stock corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through mastercard incorporated's principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. in may 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for mastercard incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the ipo )) which included the appointment of a new board of directors which is comprised almost entirely of directors who are independent from our customers. for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 13 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. website and sec reports the company's internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. in addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about mastercard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting e-mail alerts in the investor relations section of our corporate website. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and acceptance practices receive significant and intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of a portion of payments system costs among the issuers and acquirers participating in a four-party payments system, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant financial institution (the acquirer) to the cardholder financial institution (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated on our payments system. interchange fees play a key role in balancing the costs consumers and merchants pay in a four-party payments system. they are also a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process over our network. we do not earn revenues from interchange fees. we have historically set default interchange fees in the united states and certain other countries. in some jurisdictions, our interchange fees and related practices are subject to legislation, regulation and litigation as electronic forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation. examples of legislative activity related to interchange fees include: in the united states, in july 2010, the dodd-frank act was enacted into law requiring, among other things, debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. in october 2011, the u.s. federal reserve implemented regulations in accordance with the dodd-frank act limiting interchange fees for debit and prepaid transactions. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in this part i, item 1a with respect to the dodd-frank act for more detail. in the european union, in january 2012, the european commission issued a green-paper (typically the first step in the european legislative process) identifying a number of concerns with the payments industry, including concerns about interchange fees. in october 2012, the european commission announced that it intends to propose legislation in the second quarter of 2013 regulating interchange fees and covering other elements included within the green paper. 23 table of contents in poland, in 2012, the polish parliament began drafting legislation that would mandate a significant reduction in interchange fees and limit our ability to enforce our honor all cards rule. examples of competition-related regulatory proceedings or inquiries around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include: in the european union, in december 2007, the european commission issued a negative decision (upheld by a judgment of the general court of the european union, which we are appealing) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for consumer credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. in canada, in december 2010, the canadian competition bureau filed an application with the canadian competition tribunal to strike down rules related to mastercard's interchange fees, including its honor all cards , no surcharge and non-discrimination rules. in france, in january 2013, the french competition authority re-opened an investigation concerning our domestic interchange rates and informed us it intends to commence a formal proceeding and issue a statement of objections unless we offer commitments to reduce our interchange fees. in hungary, mastercard europe is appealing the hungarian competition office december 2009 decision ruling that mastercard europe's historic domestic interchange fees violate hungarian competition law and fining mastercard europe approximately $3 million. the appeal has been stayed pending the outcome of our appeal of the european commission decision. additionally, in 2012, the hungarian competition office began an investigation into whether mastercard is dominant in hungary's payments industry and whether we abused that dominance in setting our interchange fees. in the united kingdom, in february 2007, the office of fair trading ("oft") commenced a new investigation of mastercard europe's u.k. interchange fees, following the voiding by the competition appeals tribunal of the oft's 2006 decision that our previous domestic interchange fees violated u.k. and european union competition law. the oft has suspended its investigation pending the outcome of our appeal of the european commission decision. examples of regulation, or potential regulation, by central banks and similar types of regulatory authorities around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include: in australia, the reserve bank of australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours and capping the average of such interchange fees. in south africa, in september 2010, the south african reserve bank commenced a process (including the appointment of an independent consultant) to determine the manner in which interchange fees for all payments systems in south africa should be set. in canada, there has been increasing attention by policymakers on payments, and specifically the cost of acceptance, which includes interchange fees. in 2010, the canadian department of finance implemented a voluntary code of conduct on related issues for payment card industry participants in canada, by which mastercard voluntarily agreed to abide. in 2011, the minister of finance formed a task force to make non-binding recommendations with respect to the future of canadian payments, including a focus on the cost of acceptance. the task force issued its final report in march 2012. in response, the minister of finance is considering revising the code of conduct to specifically address mobile payments, forming an advisory committee to advise his office on matters of payments policy, and evaluating whether and to what extent the domestic payments system governance framework should be revised. in brazil, in december 2011, the central bank of brazil (together with competition agencies in brazil) issued a follow-up to its may 2010 report, providing an analysis of the evolution of the payments industry. the report includes indications that it is closely monitoring trends with respect to interchange fees and the cost of acceptance in general, and raises questions about the impact of the no-surcharge rule in the brazilian consumer protection code. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees. we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators' approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in this part i, item 1a related to the impact of new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product. 24 table of contents additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation. such litigation includes: in the united states, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. these suits (the settlement of which has been preliminarily approved) alleged, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard and its customer banks, and mastercard, visa and their customer banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits sought treble damages, attorneys' fees and injunctive relief. in canada, a number of class action suits have been filed against mastercard, visa and a number of large canadian banks relating to mastercard and visa interchange fees and rules related to interchange fees, including honor all cards and no surcharge rules. in the united kingdom, since may 2012, a number of retailers have filed claims against us for unspecified damages with respect to mastercard's u.k. interchange fees. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. in addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them. this could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. the dodd-frank act may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. the dodd-frank act enacted in the united states includes provisions that provide for the regulation by the federal reserve of debit and prepaid interchange fees and certain other network industry practices. among other things, it requires debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees (referred to in the dodd-frank act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. additionally, it provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive network arrangements for debit or prepaid cards or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit or prepaid transactions. in october 2011, federal reserve regulations went into effect implementing these provisions in accordance with the dodd-frank act (with certain exceptions for issuer compliance with the exclusivity requirements). the regulations limit per-transaction u.s. debit and prepaid interchange fees to 21 cents plus five basis points. the issuer may receive a fraud prevention adjustment of an additional one cent if it meets certain requirements. the interchange limitations are a significant reduction from average interchange fees in effect before the regulations were implemented. the regulations contain exemptions from the interchange limitations for issuers that, together with their affiliates, have less than $10 billion in assets, as well as for debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered payment program and certain reloadable prepaid cards. also, while the regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in this part i, item 1a with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. issuers are required to file various types of information regarding debit and prepaid transactions with the federal reserve every two years beginning in 2013, and such information could be used by the federal reserve to reexamine and potentially re-set the interchange cap. with respect to network arrangements and transaction routing, the regulations require debit and prepaid cards to be enabled with two unaffiliated payments networks. the regulations also provide that an issuer or payments network may not inhibit the ability of any person that accepts or honors a debit or prepaid card to direct the routing of the card transaction for processing over any network enabled on the card. 25 table of contents the dodd-frank act also created two new independent regulatory bodies - the cfpb and fsoc. the cfpb has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. it is not yet entirely clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will regulate broader aspects of payments network operations. the fsoc is tasked, among other responsibilities, with identifying systemically important payment, clearing and settlement systems that will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. to date, mastercard has not been designated systemically important under the applicable standard. if mastercard were designated systemically important, it would be subject to new risk management regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities. new regulations could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements. also, a systemically important payments system could be required to obtain prior approval from the federal reserve or another federal agency for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system. these developments or actions could increase the cost of operating our business and may make electronic payment transactions less attractive to card issuers, as well as consumers. this could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. if issuers, acquirers and/or merchants modify their business operations or otherwise take actions in response to this legislation which have the result of reducing the number of debit or prepaid transactions we process or the network fees we collect, the dodd-frank act could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. failure by our customers or us to adjust our strategies successfully to compete in the new environment would increase this impact. we recently entered into an agreement to settle the current u.s. merchant class litigation that, among other things, requires us to not restrict u.s. merchants, subject to certain conditions, from surcharging credit card transactions, which could impact the use of electronic payments and result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes and could in turn materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. as part of the terms of the settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation entered into by the company in october 2012 (and subject to final court approval), the company and visa have modified their no-surcharge or comparable rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations (including ensuring that mastercard or visa cardholders are not unfairly subject to surcharging relative to cardholders of competing credit card networks such as american express, discover and paypal, should those networks enforce rules that restrict surcharging). it is possible that over time u.s. merchants in some or all merchant categories may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change, which could make credit card programs less desirable to consumers in the united states. in the event that such merchants surcharge credit cards, this could result in consumers having a less favorable view of our products and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity with respect to the payments industry in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations (or impact pending regulatory proceedings) in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. for example, the december 2007 european commission decision with respect to cross-border interchange fees could also lead to additional competition authorities in european member states commencing investigations or proceedings regarding domestic interchange fees or initiating regulation. the general court's judgment in may 2012 upholding the european commission's decision has increased the possibility of such actions, as well as the possibility of an adverse outcome for us in related and pending matters. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions (such as the federal reserve's final rules implementing the dodd-frank act) could lead to regulation of other consumer products (including credit). see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in this part i, item 1a with respect to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payment services in certain countries. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product. these include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 26 table of contents government actions preferring or protecting providers of domestic payment services in certain countries may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries, such as china, russia, ukraine and india could act (or have acted) to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or may otherwise create (or have created) its own national provider. these governments may take this action to support these providers. they may also take action to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. as an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and other devices are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. in addition to the dodd-frank act, examples include: anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism - we are subject to aml regulations such as section 352 of the usa patriot act in the united states, aml laws enacted in india (which impose requirements on payments systems, such as mastercard's, and their customers) and various other aml laws with respect to the activities of our internet payment gateway and prepaid card program management services. money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action and/or damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our products or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, regulations imposed by ofac impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the sdn list; however, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system and that our reputation may suffer due to our customers' association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions. retail payment system regulation - several countries, such as india, russia and ukraine have implemented, or are authorized to implement, regulation of certain aspects of payments systems, under which payment system operators, such as mastercard, operate under the authority and broad oversight of a government regulator. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. moreover, in countries such as russia and ukraine, this oversight could be used to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, which could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in this part i, item 1a, with respect to government actions which may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to issuers and more generally to banks and other financial institutions, which impact us as a consequence. examples include the federal reserve regulations in the united states addressing any overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions, the cfpb's investigation into bank overdraft practices (and any further potential litigation on this) and regulations instituted in germany requiring the provision of certain consumer identification information in connection with prepaid transactions (with similar legislation being considered in other jurisdictions). these regulations may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers. regulation of internet transactions - regulation of internet transactions such as internet gambling transactions and prescription drug practices can impact our customers and mastercard as a payments system operator. 27 table of contents increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards and devices issued and could increase our costs. we are subject to regulations related to privacy and data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we could be negatively impacted by these regulations. recently, these topics have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in jurisdictions around the world, in particular in europe, where the european directive 95/46/ec is in the process of being revised. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may raise concerns and scrutiny of our practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information. failure to comply with the privacy and data protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. any additional, or changes to, regulations in these areas (as well as the manner in which such laws could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations. changes to these laws could also impact our business operations by requiring changes to our data practices and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring and the development of information-based products and solutions. in addition, these regulations may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue. any of these changes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. except as otherwise discussed in note 18, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. in the event we are found liable in any of these material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. for example, as described above, as part of the terms of the settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation entered into by the company in october 2012 (and subject to final court approval), the company and visa modified their no-surcharge rules in january 2013 to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations (including ensuring that mastercard or visa cardholders are not unfairly subject to surcharging relative to cardholders of competing credit card networks such as american express, discover and paypal, should those networks enforce rules that restrict surcharging). any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments. potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the united states, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments. this could adversely impact our results of operations. see also note 17 (income tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. 28 table of contents business risks substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); card-based or other electronic payment programs or systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use programs; contactless, mobile and web-based payment platforms; and other electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover, unionpay, jcb and paypal among others. visa has greater volume than we do, and has greater scale and market share, as well as strong brand recognition, which may provide significant competitive advantages. moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end-to-end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, even when they operate programs that utilize a four-party system, these competitors have not attracted the same level of regulatory or legislative scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. certain competitors may also hold competitive advantages as a result of their organizational structures. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. our customers can also develop their own competitive services. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. potential future changes in the competitive landscape, including disintermediation from other participants in the payments value chain, also could harm our business. we also expect that there may be other changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard products. competitors, customers, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. 29 table of contents our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards and other devices carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. in addition, customers principally aligned with one of our competitors may outperform customers principally aligned with us. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for us and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which we have a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest customers, our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2012, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.8 billion , or 24% , of total revenue. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. 30 table of contents merchants continue to be focused on the costs of accepting electronic forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are an important constituency in our payments system, and we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our customers, to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations as to which the company recently entered into a settlement agreement (subject to final court approval). see our risk factor in this part i, item 1a with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. also see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in this part i, item 1a with respect to the dodd-frank act. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with exclusive or nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payments system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our products for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants and governments, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using our products. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with these stakeholders. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards and other payment devices carrying our 31 table of contents brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our products and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. the marketplace's perception of our brands and reputation may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, such use could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. the competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. unprecedented events which began during 2008 impacted the financial markets around the world, including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention. the economies of the united states and numerous countries around the world were significantly impacted by this economic turmoil. countries have experienced credit ratings actions by rating agencies, including several in europe as well as the united states. in addition, some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations. many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our products and cardholders who use our products have been directly and adversely impacted. mastercard's financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. as a result, our revenue may be negatively impacted, or we may be impacted, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors; for example, a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on cross-border travel patterns, which may continue to change. constriction of consumer and business confidence, such as in recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders. uncertainties in the united states related to the upcoming deadline on the debt limit and budgetary discussions could affect the united states' credit rating and could affect consumer confidence and spending. our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable. our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. our customers may decrease spending for value-added services. government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. 32 table of contents tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including due to an increased probability of sovereign defaults in several european countries causing a liquidity crisis for our customers. see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for further discussion of our settlement exposure. our overall business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. see our risk factor in "risk factors - business risks" in this part i, item 1a with respect to additional consolidation for further discussion. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations. general economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending, as well as the impact of events in the united states such as the upcoming deadline on the debt limit) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices. also, as we are principally based in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. as a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss. in addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds. our mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $38 billion as of december 31, 2012. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $3 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. in the event that mastercard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, mastercard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from the failed customer. subject to approval by our board of directors, customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of mastercard. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited. as a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, during 2012, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by the unprecedented events in the financial markets which began during 2008 and the economic turmoil that has ensued. the european financial crisis remains a heightened concern. our aggregate gross settlement exposures to greece, italy, portugal and spain, four of the countries most significantly impacted by the eurozone crisis, are less than 5% of our total gross settlement 33 table of contents exposure and are being managed through various planning and risk mitigation practices. nonetheless, these conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. separately, mastercard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from failures of third parties to perform. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of december 31, 2012, see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. a failure or breach of our security systems or infrastructure as a result of cyber-attacks could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as mastercard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control systems. we routinely receive cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that such threats may continue, and that we are likely to continue to be a target of such attacks. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to mastercard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. we maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. we also test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities. despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of mastercard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. if our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our results of operations would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems and other key service offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. a disaster that occurs at, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. although 34 table of contents we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially reduce our results of operations. account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. we, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices. in addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as pci-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions. we routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of cardholders. these events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants' or third-party processors' systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of the servers. as a result of such data security breaches, we may be subject to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. while most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, we could face damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and/or regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. rapid technological developments in our industry present both operational and legal challenges (including potential intellectual property exposure) which could impact our results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless payment devices), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes by the complexity of our systems. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or demand significant license fees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 35 table of contents adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2012, approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in addition, the integration of any acquisition or investment (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. as of february 7, 2013 , we had 117,961,825 outstanding shares of class a common stock, of which 12,378,831 shares were owned by the mastercard foundation (the foundation ). under the terms of the donation of these shares by mastercard to the foundation, the foundation became able to sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo in may 2006 to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. despite permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to 15 years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the 15-year period, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. the market price of our common stock could be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations and have experienced increased volatility in connection with recent unpredictable economic events around the world. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: the continuation of unprecedented economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; 36 table of contents changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity; potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and developments in our industry. there are terms in our charter documents and under delaware law that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, except in limited circumstances, no customer or former customer of mastercard, or any operator, customer or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; and any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors. a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. as of february 7, 2013 , the foundation owns 12,378,831 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.5% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to april 26, 2026 (twenty years and eleven months following the ipo), except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a 37 table of contents consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $166 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2012 related to the hedging program. a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the company's financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2012 and 2011 . in addition, there was no material equity price risk at december 31, 2012 or 2011 . the dodd-frank act includes provisions related to derivative financial instruments and the company is determining what impact, if any, such provisions will have on the company's financial position or results of operations. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward contracts to manage foreign exchange risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into forward contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the assets and liabilities. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the notional value of commitments to sell foreign currency increased to $1.6 billion at december 31, 2012 compared to $279 million at december 31, 2011 due to the hedging of an increase in assets denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity holding the assets and an expanded hedging program to offset the company's foreign currency exposures arising from anticipated receipts and disbursements. the terms of the forward contracts are generally less than 18 months. as of december 31, 2012 , all forward contracts to purchase and sell foreign currency had been entered into with customers of mastercard. mastercard's derivative contracts are summarized below: december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value (in millions) commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 76 $ (1 ) $ 21 $ commitments to sell foreign currency 1,571 (2 ) 279 2 our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. 55 table of contents interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our investments in debt securities, which we generally hold as available-for-sale investments. our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company's available for sale investments as of december 31 was as follows: maturity fair market value at december 31, 2012 2018 and there- after financial instrument summary terms 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (in millions) municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 531 $ 174 $ 136 $ 78 $ 55 $ 38 $ 50 corporate securities fixed / variable interest 1,246 607 470 159 1 9 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 582 355 150 37 22 8 10 taxable short-term bond funds fixed / variable interest 210 1 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 316 259 45 8 4 auction rate securities variable interest 32 32 other fixed / variable interest 66 23 27 15 1 total $ 2,983 $ 1,418 $ 828 $ 297 $ 79 $ 59 $ 92 1 short-term bond funds of $210 million have no contractual maturity. maturity fair market value at december 31, 2011 2017 and there- after financial instrument summary terms 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (in millions) municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 393 $ 109 $ 74 $ 62 $ 59 $ 40 $ 49 corporate securities fixed / variable interest 325 146 91 88 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 205 176 15 3 4 3 4 taxable short-term bond funds fixed / variable interest 203 1 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 69 43 24 2 auction rate securities variable interest 70 70 other fixed / variable interest 20 16 4 total $ 1,285 $ 490 $ 208 $ 155 $ 63 $ 43 $ 123 1 short-term bond funds of $203 million have no contractual maturity. at december 31, 2012 , we have a credit facility which provides liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by the company's customers. this credit facility has variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. see note 12 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company's current and prior credit facilities. we had no borrowings under the current or prior credit facilities at december 31, 2012 or 2011 . equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 . 56 table of contentsrisk factors 14 merchant discount rate. the merchant discount rate is established by the acquirer to cover its costs of both participating in the four-party system and providing services rendered to merchants. the rate takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer. 5 table of contents additional fees and economic considerations. among the parties in a four-party system, various types of fees may be charged to different constituents for various services. acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount rate. issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. as described below, we charge issuers and acquirers fees for the transaction processing and related services we provide. in a four-party payments system, the economics of a payment transaction relative to mastercard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction or cash withdrawal, and whether the transaction is processed over our network or a third-party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an on-us transaction). mastercard network architecture . the mastercard network features a globally integrated structure that provides scale for our issuer customers, enabling them to expand into regional and global markets. it features an intelligent architecture that enables the network to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures-distributed (peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke): transactions that require fast, reliable processing, such as those submitted using a contactless card or device at a toll booth, can use the network's distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred. transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point-of-sale, or customization of transaction data for unique consumer-spending controls, use the network's centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction. our network's architecture enables us to connect all parties regardless of whether the transaction is occurring at a traditional physical location, at an atm, on the internet or through a connected device. it has 24-hour a day availability and world-class response time. the network incorporates multiple layers of protection, both for continuity purposes and to address cyber-security challenges. we engage in multiple efforts to mitigate against such challenges, including regularly testing our systems to address potential vulnerabilities. participation standards . we establish, apply and enforce standards surrounding participation in the mastercard payments system. we grant licenses that provide issuers and acquirers that meet specified criteria with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of cards and payment devices carrying our brands. as a condition of our licenses, issuers and acquirers agree to comply with our standards surrounding participation and brand usage and acceptance. we monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our standards to combat fraudulent, illegal and brand-damaging activity. issuers and acquirers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so that we can monitor trends and initiate action when appropriate. customer risk management. we guarantee the settlement of many of the transactions between our issuers and acquirers to ensure the integrity of our network ( settlement exposure ). we do not, however, guarantee payments to merchants by their acquirer, or the availability of unspent prepaid cardholder account balances. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal customers, we are exposed to customer credit risk arising from the potential financial failure of any principal customers of mastercard, maestro and cirrus, and affiliate debit licensees. principal customers participate directly in mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate customers. to minimize the contingent risk to mastercard of a failure of a customer to meet its settlement obligations, we monitor the financial health of, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our standards by, our customers. we employ various strategies to mitigate against these risks. processing services transaction switching - authorization, clearing and settlement. through the mastercard network, we enable the routing of a transaction to the issuer for its approval, facilitate the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a successfully-conducted transaction, and help to settle the transaction by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties via settlement banks chosen by us and the customer. 6 table of contents cross-border and domestic processing. the mastercard network processes transactions throughout the world where the merchant country and issuer country are different (cross-border transactions), providing cardholders with the ability to use, and merchants to accept, mastercard cards and other payment devices across multiple country borders. we also provide domestic (or intra-country) transaction processing services to customers in every region of the world, which allow issuer customers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants within a particular country. we process approximately half of all transactions using mastercard-branded cards, including most cross-border transactions. we process the majority of mastercard-branded domestic transactions in the united states, united kingdom, canada, brazil and a select number of other countries. outside of these countries, most domestic transaction activity on our products is processed without our involvement. extended processing. we extend our processing capabilities in the payments value chain in various regions and across the globe with an expanded suite of issuer, prepaid, acquirer, third-party, gateway and mobile processing solutions. our offerings include: mastercard integrated processing solutions ( ips ), a debit and prepaid issuer processing platform designed to provide medium to large global issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels, including authorizing transactions and assisting issuers in managing both their risk and the cards issued to their customers. payment gateways, including: (1) datacash and mastercard internet gateway service (migs), which offer a single interface to provide e-commerce merchants with the ability to process secure payments and offer value-added solutions, including outsourced electronic payments, fraud prevention and alternative payment options, and (2) the mastercard mobile payments gateway, a platform that facilitates transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions for our customers. mastercard programs and solutions we provide a wide variety of payment solutions that support payment products that customers can offer to their cardholders. these services facilitate transactions on the mastercard network among cardholders, merchants, financial institutions and governments in markets globally. the following chart provides gdv and number of cards featuring our logos in 2013 for select programs and solutions: year ended december 31, 2013 as of december 31, 2013 gdv in billions % of total gdv cards in millions percent increase from december 31, 2012 mastercard branded gdv 1 consumer credit $ 1,990 48 % 703 4 % commercial credit 322 8 % 38 13 % debit and prepaid 1,792 44 % 540 28 % 1 excludes volume generated by maestro and cirrus cards. as of december 31, 2013, the maestro logo appeared on 706 million cards, representing 2% growth from december 31, 2012. consumer credit and charge. we offer a number of programs that enable issuers to provide consumers with cards that enable them to defer payment, either by permitting them to carry a balance in a revolving credit account or requiring payment of the full balance within a specified period. these programs are designed to meet the needs of our customers around the world and address specific consumer segments, including: standard - general purpose products for consumers with basic credit card needs, featuring revolving credit, security and everyday convenience. premium - products designed for more affluent consumers and featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying level of enhanced services, including insurance coverage and access benefits. affluent - product offerings for the most affluent consumers worldwide that feature our highest purchasing capacity, as well as a comprehensive range of premium access benefits and top-tier services, and travel, concierge and cardholder protection insurance in some regions. 7 table of contents debit. we support a range of payment solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds in deposit and other accounts. our debit and deposit access programs can be used to make purchases and to obtain cash in bank branches, at atms and, in some cases at the point of sale. mastercard-branded debit. mastercard-branded debit programs provide functionality for both signature-based and pin-based authenticated transactions, and are designed to meet the needs of consumers with standard, premium and affluent offerings. maestro-branded debit. maestro is our global pin-based debit program, and is the only pin-based solution that operates globally. maestro has a leading position among pin-based debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in europe. atm. cirrus is our primary global cash access solution, providing domestic and cross-border access for transactions at atms that participate in the mastercard network, including cash access (withdrawal, advance and drawdown), balance inquiries, account transfers and deposits. prepaid. prepaid programs involve a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. cardholders access funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card or other device (such as mobile) that may leverage our contactless functionality. mastercard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands, and we support these programs with processing services. we provide and customize programs to meet unique commercial and consumer needs in all prepaid segments, with a focus on: government, which includes programs targeted to achieve financial inclusion, cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in programs such as social security payments, unemployment benefits and others; commercial, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in business applications such as payroll, health savings accounts, employee benefits and others; and consumer reloadable, which includes programs to address the payment needs of individuals without formal banking relationships, individuals who are not traditional users of credit or debit cards or devices or individuals who want to segment funds for security or convenience purposes, such as travel. we also provide prepaid card program management services through access prepaid worldwide ( access ). through access, we manage and deliver consumer and commercial prepaid travel cards to business partners around the world, including financial institutions, retailers, telecommunications companies, travel agents, foreign exchange bureaus, colleges and universities, airlines and governments. combined with mastercard's processing assets (such as ips) and other strategic alliances, these services augment and support issuers of prepaid cards around the world, with a focus outside of the united states. access enables us to offer end-to-end prepaid solutions encompassing branded switching, issuer processing and program management services, primarily focused on the travel sector. commercial. we offer commercial payment solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and government entities streamline their procurement and payment processes, manage information and expenses and reduce administrative costs. our offerings and platforms include: corporate cards (including premium, purchasing and fleet cards, as well as cards that combine these functionalities) that allow corporations to manage travel and entertainment expenses, streamline the procurement process and provide corporations with additional transactional detail. smartdata, a mastercard-powered tool that provides information reporting and expense management capabilities. procurement, travel, purchasing, fleet and other payment programs for government entities. credit and debit programs targeted at the small-business segment that offer the ability to gain access to working capital, to extend payments and to separate business expenses from personal expenses. 8 table of contents payment innovations . the continued adoption of mobile devices (such as smartphones and tablets) has resulted in the ongoing convergence of the physical and digital worlds, where consumers are increasingly choosing to pay remotely. leveraging our global innovations capability, we are developing new and innovative platforms, products, and solutions that take advantage of this convergence and give us the opportunity to lead the transition to digital payments. we do this in a number of ways, including: creating better shopping and selling experiences. we are focused on offering platforms and products to make shopping and selling experiences simpler, faster, and safer for both consumers and merchants. through masterpass , a globally interactive platform, we provide a digital wallet service to make online shopping safe and easy for all types of transactions - in-store, online and via mobile devices - by storing payment and shipping information in one convenient and secure place. we launch innovations that make it easier for merchants to accept payments and expand their customer base. as an example, simplify commerce allows merchants to quickly accept mobile and e-commerce payments, regardless of brand. we are also developing products and practices to facilitate the growth of acceptance through mobile point-of-sale. in these cases, mobile devices are used as point-of-sale terminals. engaging with new partners. through numerous active partnerships with mobile leaders around the world-including samsung, deutsche telekom, and isis (a joint venture formed in the united states by at&amp;t, verizon, and t-mobile)-we enable consumers to securely use their smartphones to make digital payments. through our open api services, developers can innovate and create applications using financial and data services offered through the mastercard developer zone. facilitating the sending and receiving of money. we provide money transfer and global remittance solutions to enable consumers, particularly in developing markets, to send and receive money quickly and securely around the world. we continue to enhance our personal payments capabilities through partnerships with companies such as western union, expanding our money transfer technology capabilities and providing financial institutions connected to our network with additional endpoints to send funds domestically and globally. safety and security utilizing the mastercard network, we work to ensure the safety and security of the overall payments system. we offer products and services to detect, prevent and respond to fraud and ensure the safety of transactions made on our products. in many markets, many of our products provide consumers with the benefit of "zero liability", or no responsibility for losses, in the event of fraud, and we continue to focus on extending this benefit for other consumers around the world. safety is a key factor in the design of our products, including our digital and mobile technologies. our solutions to prevent and detect fraud and enhance the safety of transactions include: mastercard securecode , a global internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code; mastercard site data protection service , which assists customers, merchants and third-party service providers in protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and subsequent account data compromises; fraud rule manager, our suite of fraud detection and management products and services; and datacash gatekeeper 2.0, fraud prevention tools that we provide for merchants. we have been leading the development of industry standards to ensure that high payment security standards are put in place for the global payments system. we continue to work with our customers around the world to encourage the replacement of traditional magnetic-stripe based cards and terminals with chip-enabled products that offer increased security and fraud protection, among other things. we have been a leader in evolving a roadmap for the migration to emv, the international standard for chip technology. in january 2012, we endorsed emv as the payments platform technology for the u.s. market, and we are now engaged at all levels in the industry to bring the benefits of this technology, including fraud prevention, to our u.s. customers and consumers. while emv provides protection in the physical space, we also have been leading the development of standards for safety and security for digital payments. these efforts include the development of a standard for tokenization, which helps protect sensitive cardholder information by generating a unique identifier used only for a specific transaction. as part of our leadership on safety and security, we work with many payments industry associations: we are on the pci security standards council, which develops comprehensive standards and supporting materials to enhance payment card data security; we are a part owner of and key contributor to emv co, which develops standards for chip technology; and 9 table of contents we are on the board of the fido alliance, a group focused on secure online authentication. we also work with governments around the world to help develop safe and secure transactions for the global payments system. value-added services and solutions mastercard advisors . mastercard advisors is our global professional services group which provides proprietary analysis, data-driven consulting and marketing services solutions to help clients optimize, streamline and grow their businesses. with analyses based on billions of anonymous transactions processed globally, we leverage aggregated information and a consultative approach to help financial institutions, merchants, media companies, governments and other organizations grow their businesses or otherwise achieve efficiencies. our information services provide a suite of data analytics and products (including reports, benchmarks, models and insights) that enable customers to make better business decisions. our consulting services group combines professional problem-solving skills with payments expertise to provide solutions that address the challenges and opportunities of clients with respect to payments. the managed services group provides solutions via data-driven acquisition of accounts, activation of portfolios, conversion of cards, marketing promotions activities and other customer management services. loyalty and rewards solutions . we focus on providing value for consumers on mastercard payment cards and devices through a combination of benefits and services, both paid for and arranged by mastercard on behalf of our customers. our services for issuers include a scalable rewards platform that enables issuers to provide their consumers with personalized offers and rewards, access to a global airline lounge network, global and local concierge services, a wide range of individual insurance coverages, emergency card replacement, emergency cash advance services and a 24-hour cardholder service center to provide information related to benefits and rewards programs. our suite of services for merchants include a targeted offers and rewards campaign management service for publishing offers, as well as opportunities for holders of a co-brand or a merchant's loyalty card or a member of a third-party-managed rewards program to obtain reward points faster. we support these services with program management capabilities. marketing we manage and promote our brands through advertising, promotions, sponsorships and digital, mobile and social media initiatives in order to increase consumer preference for our brands and usage of our products. we sponsor a variety of sporting, entertainment and charity-related marketing properties to align with consumer segments important to us and our customers. our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall preference among cardholders globally. our priceless advertising campaign, which has run in 53 languages in 112 countries worldwide, promotes mastercard usage benefits and acceptance, markets mastercard payment products and solutions and provides mastercard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand around the globe. our consumer marketing approach uses consumer-centric research and insights focused on consumers' spending preferences. priceless cities , in more than 35 cities across all of our regions, seeks to increase preference for the mastercard brand by connecting consumers to their interests and offering them access to special experiences and offers when they are in their home city or traveling. mastercard revenue sources we generate revenues by assessing our customers primarily based on gdv on the cards and other devices that carry our brands and from the fees we charge to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related products and services. our net revenues are classified into the following five categories: domestic assessments: domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the dollar volume of activity on cards and other devices that carry our brands where the merchant country and the issuer country are the same. cross-border volume fees: cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the dollar volume of activity on cards and other devices that carry our brands where the merchant country and issuer country are different. transaction processing fees: transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and are primarily based on the number of transactions. other revenues: other revenues consist of other payment-related products and services and primarily include fees associated with consulting and research, fraud products and services, loyalty and rewards solutions, program management services and a variety of other payment-related products and services. 10 table of contents rebates and incentives (contra-revenue): rebates and incentives are provided to certain mastercard customers and are recorded as contra-revenue. pricing varies among our regions, and can be modified for our customers through customer-specific rebate and incentive agreements, which provide customers with financial incentives and other support benefits to issue, accept, route, prioritize and promote our branded products and other payment programs. these financial incentives may be based on gdv or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new payment products, increased acceptance of our products, launch of new programs or execution of marketing initiatives. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - revenues in part ii, item 7 for more detail about our revenue, gdv and processed transactions. intellectual property we own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including mastercard , maestro and cirrus , through one or more affiliates. we also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by mastercard to support our payment programs. trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained. through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers' issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. in addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, many of which are important to our business operations. patents are of varying duration depending on the jurisdiction and filing date. competition we compete in the global payments industry against all forms of payment including: paper-based payments (principally cash and checks); card-based payments, including credit, charge, debit, atm and prepaid products, and limited use products such as private-label; contactless, mobile and e-commerce payments; and other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments and automated clearing house payments. we face a number of competitors in the global payments industry: cash and check . cash and check continue to represent the most widely-used forms of payment, constituting approximately 85% of the world's retail payment transactions. however, electronic forms of payment are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment around the world, benefiting electronic payment brands. general purpose payment networks . we compete worldwide with payment networks such as visa, american express and discover, among others. among global networks, visa has significantly greater volume than we do. outside of the united states, networks such as jcb in japan and unionpay in china have leading positions in their domestic markets. in the case of unionpay, it operates the sole domestic payment switch in china. in addition, several governments are promoting, or considering promoting, local networks for domestic processing. debit. we compete with atm and point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as interlink , plus and visa electron (owned by visa inc.), star (owned by first data corporation), nyce (owned by fis), and pulse (owned by discover), in the united states; interac in canada; eftpos in australia; and bankserv in south africa. in addition, in many countries outside of the united states, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume. end-to-end payments networks. our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payments networks, such as american express and discover, that have direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with account holders. these competitors have certain competitive advantages over four-party payments systems such as ours. among other things, these networks do not require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs between the issuing and acquiring sides of their business, even though they have the ability to internally transfer costs 11 table of contents in a manner similar to interchange fees. as a result, to date, operators of end-to-end payments networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face. competition for customer business . we compete intensely with other payments networks for customer business. globally, financial institutions typically issue both mastercard and visa-branded payment products, and we compete with visa for business on the basis of individual portfolios or programs. in addition, a number of our customers issue american express and/or discover-branded payment cards in a manner consistent with a four-party system. we continue to face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our issuers and acquirers, and we seek to enter into business agreements with them through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our payment products. we also compete for non-financial institution partners, such as merchants, governments and telecommunication companies. third-party processors . we face competition, and potential displacement, from transaction processors throughout the world, such as first data corporation and total system services, inc., which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment transaction authorization and processing services. alternative payments systems and new entrants . as the global payments industry becomes more complex, we may face increasing competition from emerging payment providers, including networks and others that have developed less traditional payment models. many of these networks have developed payments systems focused on online activity in e-commerce and mobile channels, however they either have or may expand to other channels. these competitors include digital wallet providers such as paypal , google and amazon, mobile operators such as isis, handset manufacturers, and social networks such as facebook . we compete with these providers in some circumstances, but in some cases they may also be our customers or partner with us. we compete successfully as a technology-driven company that operates a global payments network within the four-party model, providing a critical link between consumers, financial institutions, businesses and merchants worldwide. we offer secure, unsurpassed acceptance via a highly-adaptable network that is the world's fastest. we maintain and grow our leadership position in payments with the adoption of innovative products and platforms like masterpass and mastercard incontrol (our platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert controls). we are at the forefront of the effort to reduce the incidence of fraud in global payments, leading industry efforts such as emv migration and tokenization. our mastercard advisors group is a professional services organization dedicated solely to the payments industry. our expanded on-soil presence in individual markets and a heightened focus on working with governments has improved our ability to serve a broad array of participants in global payments. government regulation general. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and payment devices are used. see risk factors-legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a of this report. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions around the world. examples include: legislation to regulate interchange fees (such the dodd-frank act in the united states and the legislation proposed by the european commission in july 2013); competition-related regulatory proceedings (such as the european commission's december 2007 decision restricting our cross-border interchange fees, which is pending appeal, as well as proceedings in several jurisdictions, including several european union member states); central bank regulation (such as in australia); and litigation (such as the merchant litigations in the united states and private lawsuits in canada and the united kingdom). for more detail, see our risk factors in risk factors - legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a of this report related to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the dodd-frank act. also see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. no-surcharge rules. we have historically implemented policies in certain regions that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted 12 table of contents to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so), including the reserve bank of australia (the rba ) and the canadian competition bureau (the ccb ). additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation, in january 2013 we modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states, the european union and elsewhere. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program. regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a of this report related to regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security. anti-money laundering. mastercard is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations, including the regulatory requirements of section 352 of the usa patriot act. we have implemented a comprehensive aml program designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity. our aml compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. economic sanctions . we are subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) restricting financial transactions and other dealings with cuba, iran, syria and sudan and with persons and entities included in ofac's list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). cuba, iran, syria and sudan have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries and do not license financial institutions domiciled in these countries. we have established a risk-based compliance program that includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent us from having business dealings with prohibited countries, individuals or entities. this includes obligating issuers and acquirers to screen cardholders and merchants, respectively, against the sdn list. banking agency supervision . we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers. certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council under its authority to examine financial institutions' technology service providers. consumer financial protection bureau and financial stability oversight council . the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the united states, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. in addition, the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) is tasked with, among other things, identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems in the united states that are systemically important under the applicable statutory standard. such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. it is not entirely clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations, and to date, mastercard has not been designated systemically important. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a related to the dodd-frank act. retail payments system regulation . regulators in several countries around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in their countries. such authority could result in regulation of various aspects of our business. payment system oversight also could be used to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, such as in russia and ukraine. see our risk factor in "risk factors - legal and regulatory risks" in part i, item 1a related to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments or processing services in certain countries. issuer practice regulation. our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting mastercard as a consequence. such regulations and investigations have related to bank overdraft practices and issuance and other practices related to prepaid cards. regulation of internet transactions . under the unlawful internet gambling enforcement act, payment transactions must be coded and blocked for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payments system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. in addition, the u.s. congress (and some states) continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas, such as cyber-security, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy. 13 table of contents additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including campus cards, virtual currencies, payment card add-on products, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. seasonality see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-seasonality in part ii, item 7 of this report. financial information about geographic areas see note 21 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2013, we employed approximately 8,200 persons, of which approximately 3,800 were employed outside of the united states. we consider our relationship with employees to be good. additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware stock corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through mastercard incorporated's principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. in may 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for mastercard incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the ipo )). for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 13 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. website and sec reports the company's internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. in addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about mastercard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting e-mail alerts in the investor relations section of our corporate website. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and acceptance practices receive significant and intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. interchange fees are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. they are also a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process over our network. we do not earn revenues from interchange fees. we have historically set default interchange fees in the united states and certain other countries. in some jurisdictions, interchange fees and related practices are subject to legislation, regulation and litigation as electronic forms of payment have become more important to local economies. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation. examples of legislative activity related to interchange fees include: in july 2013, the european commission proposed legislation relating to payment system regulation of cards issued and acquired within the european economic area (the eea ). the proposed legislation includes, among other things, the 14 table of contents following elements: (1) a cap on credit and debit interchange fees of 30 and 20 basis points per transaction, respectively, initially for intra-eea cross-border consumer transactions (these cross-border rates are comparable to the consumer rates mastercard has applied for europe on a weighted average basis since july 2009), and subsequently for all domestic consumer transactions in the eea; (2) restrictions on our honor all cards rule with respect to products with different levels of interchange; (3) a prohibition of surcharging by merchants for products that are subject to regulated interchange rates; (4) the prohibition of rules that prevent an issuer from co-badging (that is, putting a competing brand on its credit or debit cards); and (5) the separation of brand and processing in terms of legal form, organization and decision making. procedurally, the proposed legislation is currently being debated, and may be potentially amended, by the european union parliament. the proposed legislation will also need to be reviewed by the council of ministers and the european commission before it can be adopted. any final legislation, if approved by the european union parliament and the council of ministers, could be different than what is in the initial proposal. in poland and hungary, legislation became effective in january 2014 capping domestic interchange fees, and similar legislation is being considered in other jurisdictions such as portugal and israel. examples of competition-related regulatory proceedings or inquiries around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include: in december 2007, the european commission issued a negative decision (upheld by a judgment of the general court of the european union, which we are appealing) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for consumer credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. in february 2007, the office of fair trading in the united kingdom commenced a new investigation of mastercard europe's u.k. interchange fees (which is suspended pending the outcome of our appeal of the european commission decision). examples of regulation, or potential regulation, by central banks and similar types of regulatory authorities around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include: the reserve bank of australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours and capping the average of such interchange fees. in september 2010, the south african reserve bank commenced a process to determine the manner in which interchange fees for all payments systems in south africa should be set. the minister of finance in canada is considering revising the voluntary code of conduct , which addresses issues for payment card industry participants in canada, to address issues related to interchange rates, transparency of acceptance costs, premium payment product and merchant discount rates. in 2013, the united kingdom passed legislation to create a new regulatory body that would have the authority to regulate payment systems, and the government is in the process of determining the scope of this authority. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees. we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators' approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. see our risk factor in risk factors - legal and regulatory risks in this part i, item 1a related to the impact of new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product to other jurisdictions or other products. additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation. such litigation includes: in the united states, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. these suits (the settlement of which has received final court approval) alleged, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard and its customer banks, and mastercard, visa and their customer banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits sought treble damages, attorneys' fees and injunctive relief. 15 table of contents in canada, a number of class action suits have been filed against mastercard, visa and a number of large canadian banks relating to mastercard and visa interchange fees and rules related to interchange fees, including honor all cards and no surcharge rules. in the united kingdom, a number of retailers have filed claims against us for unspecified damages with respect to mastercard's cross-border interchange fees and its u.k. and ireland domestic interchange fees. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. in addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them. this could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. the dodd-frank act may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. the dodd-frank act enacted in the united states includes provisions that provide for the regulation by the federal reserve of debit and prepaid interchange fees and certain other network industry practices. among other things, it requires debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees (referred to in the dodd-frank act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. additionally, it provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive network arrangements for debit or prepaid cards or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit or prepaid transactions. the federal reserve regulations implementing these provisions limit per-transaction u.s. debit and prepaid interchange fees to 21 cents plus five basis points. the issuer may receive a fraud prevention adjustment of an additional one cent if it meets certain requirements. the regulations contain exemptions from the interchange limitations for issuers that, together with their affiliates, have less than $10 billion in assets, as well as for debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered payment program and certain reloadable prepaid cards. also, while the regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions. see our risk factor in risk factors - legal and regulatory risks in this part i, item 1a with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. issuers and networks are required to file various types of information regarding debit and prepaid transactions with the federal reserve periodically, and such information could be used by the federal reserve to reexamine and potentially re-set the interchange cap. with respect to network arrangements and transaction routing, the regulations require debit and prepaid cards to be enabled with two unaffiliated payments networks. the regulations also provide that an issuer or payments network may not inhibit the ability of any person that accepts or honors a debit or prepaid card to direct the routing of the card transaction for processing over any network enabled on the card. in july 2013, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia (the district court ) granted summary judgment in favor of a group of retailers and retailer trade associations, overturning these federal reserve regulations with regard to interchange fees and network non-exclusivity. the district court's decision requires the federal reserve to revise its regulations to consider only incremental authorization, clearing and settlement costs in determining the level of interchange fees, as well as require two unaffiliated networks for routing transactions for each authentication method (pin and signature). the federal reserve has appealed the decision to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit (the appellate court ) and the district court has issued an order staying its decision pending this appeal. as a result, the federal reserve's debit interchange regulations remain in effect until the appellate process is completed. the appellate court has granted a motion to expedite the federal reserve's appeal and a decision is expected in 2014. if the district court's ruling is upheld, the federal reserve would be required to revise its regulations in accordance with the ruling. it is not clear at what level the federal reserve would set the interchange fees, although, based on the decision, the level of interchange fees likely would be significantly reduced. 16 table of contents the cfpb and fsoc were both created under the dodd-frank act. the cfpb has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, although it is not clear whether and/or to what extent it will regulate broader aspects of payment card networks. the fsoc is tasked with identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems that are systemically important . if mastercard were designated systemically important , it would be subject to new risk management regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities. new regulations could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements. also, a systemically important payments system could be required to obtain prior approval from the federal reserve or another federal agency for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system. these developments or actions could increase the cost of operating our business and may make electronic payment transactions less attractive to card issuers, as well as consumers. this could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. if issuers, acquirers and/or merchants modify their business operations or otherwise take actions in response to this legislation, the federal reserve's regulations and/or any revised rules that have the result of reducing the number of debit or prepaid transactions we process or the network fees we collect, the dodd-frank act could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in order to successfully compete in such an environment, we and our customers would each need to adjust our strategies accordingly. we entered into an agreement to settle the current u.s. merchant class litigation that, among other things, requires us to not restrict u.s. merchants, subject to certain conditions, from surcharging credit card transactions, which could impact the use of electronic payments and result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes and could in turn materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. as part of the terms of the settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation entered into by the company in october 2012 (which has received final court approval), the company and visa have modified their no-surcharge or comparable rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations (including ensuring that mastercard or visa cardholders are not unfairly subject to surcharging relative to cardholders of competing credit card networks such as american express, discover and paypal, should those networks enforce rules that restrict surcharging). it is possible that over time u.s. merchants in some or all merchant categories may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change, which could make credit card programs less desirable to consumers in the united states. in the event that such merchants surcharge credit cards, this could result in consumers having a less favorable view of our products and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. new regulations or other regulatory activity with respect to the payments industry in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations (or impact pending regulatory proceedings) in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. for example, the december 2007 european commission decision with respect to cross-border interchange fees could also lead to additional competition authorities in european member states commencing investigations or proceedings regarding domestic interchange fees or initiating regulation. the general court's judgment in may 2012 upholding the european commission's decision has increased the possibility of such actions, as well as the possibility of an adverse outcome for us in related and pending matters. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions (such as the federal reserve's rules implementing the dodd-frank act) could lead to regulation of other consumer products (including credit). see our risk factor in risk factors - legal and regulatory risks in this part i, item 1a with respect to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payment services in certain countries. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involving other products, affecting our business. these include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 17 table of contents government actions preferring or protecting providers of domestic payment services in certain countries may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries, such as china, russia, ukraine and india could act (or have acted) to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or may otherwise create (or have created) and support its own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. as an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and other devices are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: anti-money laundering and economic sanctions - we are subject to aml laws and regulations, including the usa patriot act in the united states, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by ofac, including restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. we have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable aml and ofac sanctions requirements. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the sdn list. however, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system. activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action , and our reputation may suffer due to our customer's association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction. any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and / or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. retail payment system regulation - authority of regulators in several countries to regulate certain aspects of payments systems under which mastercard operates could result in obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. such obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions provide oversight of payment systems. moreover, if this oversight is used to provide resources or preferential treatment or protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, it could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. see our risk factor in risk factors - legal and regulatory risks in this part i, item 1a, with respect to government actions which may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to issuers and more generally to banks and other financial institutions, which impact us as a consequence. existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers and thereby directly impact our business and transaction volumes. regulation of digital transactions - the u.s. congress and some states continue to consider regulatory initiatives relating to digital areas, including cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy. congress may also consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate internet gambling. if implemented, any such regulation could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to 18 table of contents comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards and devices issued and could increase our costs. we are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. due to recent account data compromise events at large, u.s.-based retailers, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may require changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information. failure to comply with the these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. any additional, or changes to, regulations in these areas (as well as the manner in which such laws could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring and the development of information based products and solutions. in addition, these regulations may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue. any of these changes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any of these material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments. potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the united states, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments. this could adversely impact our results of operations. see also note 17 (income tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. business risks substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); card-based or other electronic payment programs or systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use programs; contactless, mobile and web-based payment platforms; and other electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover, unionpay, jcb and paypal among others. in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, visa has greater volume, scale and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. 19 table of contents our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end-to-end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must typically rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, even when they operate programs that utilize a four-party system, these competitors have generally not attracted the same level of regulatory or legislative scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. our customers can also develop their own competitive services. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. potential future changes in the competitive landscape, including disintermediation from other participants in the payments value chain, also could harm our business. we expect that there may be future changes in the competitive landscape, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard products. competitors, customers, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we face continued intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge issuers and acquirers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards and other devices carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, 20 table of contents increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. continuing consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for us and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation were to continue in the banking industry, it may result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which we have a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest customers, our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. merchants continue to be focused on the costs of accepting electronic forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are an important constituency in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations as to which the company recently entered into a settlement agreement (which has received final court approval). see our risk factor in this part i, item 1a with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. also see our risk factor in risk factors - legal and regulatory risks in this part i, item 1a with respect to the dodd-frank act. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase 21 table of contents the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we depend significantly on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers to manage our payments system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our issuers and acquirers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our products for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants and governments, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - business risks in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards and other payment devices carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our products and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. the marketplace's perception of our brands and reputation may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, 22 table of contents could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. global economic events in financial markets have directly affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. the competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. adverse economic events (including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention) have impacted the financial markets around the world. the economies of the united states and numerous countries around the world have been significantly impacted by this economic turmoil. countries have experienced credit ratings actions by rating agencies, including several in europe as well as the united states. in addition, some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations. many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted. mastercard's financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent. low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders. debt limit and budgetary discussions in the united states could affect the united states' credit rating and could affect consumer confidence and spending. our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable. our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. our customers may decrease spending for value-added services. 23 table of contents government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers. see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for further discussion of our settlement exposure. our overall business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. see our risk factor in risk factors - business risks in this part i, item 1a with respect to additional consolidation for further discussion. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations. general economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending, as well as the impact of events in the united states such as deadlines on the debt limit) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices. also, as we are principally based in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. as a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity. we may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss. in addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds. our mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $41 billion as of december 31, 2013. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $3 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. in the event that mastercard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, mastercard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from the failed customer. subject to approval by our board of directors, customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of mastercard. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited. as a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, during 2013, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by adverse economic events in the global financial markets. these conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform 24 table of contents under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of december 31, 2013, see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. separately, mastercard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform. any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. a failure or breach of our security systems or infrastructure as a result of cyber-attacks could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as mastercard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to mastercard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. we maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. we also test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities. despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of mastercard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. if our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our results of operations would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems and other key service offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. a disaster that occurs 25 table of contents at, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially reduce our results of operations. account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. we, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices. in addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as pci-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions. we routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of cardholders. these events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants' or third-party processors' systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems. further data security breaches may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. while most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, we could face damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, as well as the trend toward electronic payments, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and/or regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. in addition, fraud is more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as e-commerce and mobile commerce transactions, which are becoming increasingly prominent. increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. rapid technological developments in our industry present both operational and legal challenges (including potential intellectual property exposure) which could impact our results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless payment devices), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes by the complexity of our systems. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. 26 table of contents failure to keep pace with these technological developments could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2013, approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in addition, the integration of any acquisition or investment (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure the market price of our common stock could be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: the continuation of adverse economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity; potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and developments in our industry. 27 table of contents our organizational documents and delaware law contain terms and provisions that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, except in limited circumstances, no customer or former customer of mastercard, or any operator, customer or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent; a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; and any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors. a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. as of february 6, 2014 , the foundation owned 119,214,210 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.4% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to april 26, 2026 (twenty years and eleven months following the ipo), except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $189 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2013 related to the hedging program. a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the company's financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2013 and 2012 . in addition, there was no material equity price risk at december 31, 2013 or 2012 . the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act in the united states includes provisions related to derivative financial instruments. the company believes the adoption of such provisions will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position or results of operations. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currency. we also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. the objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward contracts are generally less than 18 months. as of december 31, 2013 , all forward contracts to purchase and sell foreign currency had been entered into with customers of mastercard. mastercard's derivative contracts are summarized below: december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value (in millions) commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 23 $ (1 ) $ 76 $ (1 ) commitments to sell foreign currency 1,722 1 1,571 (2 ) our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. 45 table of contents interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our investments in debt securities, which we generally hold as available-for-sale investments. our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company's available for sale investments as of december 31 was as follows: maturity fair market value at december 31, 2013 2019 and there- after financial instrument summary terms 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (in millions) municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 267 $ 200 $ 57 $ 10 $ $ $ corporate securities fixed / variable interest 1,426 646 464 290 9 15 2 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 560 376 122 31 12 9 10 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 364 307 49 8 auction rate securities variable interest 11 11 other fixed / variable interest 79 33 37 7 2 total $ 2,707 $ 1,562 $ 729 $ 346 $ 23 $ 24 $ 23 maturity financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and there- after (in millions) municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 531 $ 174 $ 136 $ 78 $ 55 $ 38 $ 50 corporate securities fixed / variable interest 1,246 607 470 159 1 9 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 582 355 150 37 22 8 10 taxable short-term bond funds fixed / variable interest 210 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 316 259 45 8 4 auction rate securities variable interest 32 32 other fixed / variable interest 66 23 27 15 1 total $ 2,983 $ 1,418 $ 828 $ 297 $ 79 $ 59 $ 92 1 short-term bond funds of $210 million had no contractual maturity. at december 31, 2013 , we have a credit facility which provides liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by the company's customers. this credit facility has variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. see note 12 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company's current and prior credit facilities. we had no borrowings under the current or prior credit facilities at december 31, 2013 or 2012 . equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 . 46 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors legal and regulatory risks the payments industry, and in particular interchange fees, is the subject of significant and intense global legal, regulatory and legislative focus, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. interchange fees are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. although we do not earn revenues from interchange fees, they are a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we see on our cards. we have historically set default interchange fees in the united states and certain other countries. in some jurisdictions, however, interchange fees and related practices are subject to regulatory activity and litigation that have limited our ability to establish default rates. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation. more broadly, regulators in several jurisdictions increasingly have been leveraging, or seeking to establish, the authority to regulate certain aspects of payments systems such as ours. these regulations have, and could further result in, obligations or restrictions with respect to not only interchange fees but also the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. these obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems. examples of activity related to interchange fees and the payments system include: in july 2013, the european commission proposed legislation relating to payment system regulation of cards issued and acquired within the european economic area, which was amended in 2014 by both the european parliament and the european council of ministers. following discussions among all three governing institutions, the resulting revised proposal includes: (1) a cap on consumer credit and debit interchange fees of 30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively (a significant reduction in fees), with the ability of eu member states to impose more restrictive domestic debit interchange levels; (2) restrictions on our honor all cards rule with respect to products with different levels of interchange; (3) a prohibition of surcharging by merchants for products that are subject to regulated interchange rates; (4) the prohibition of rules that prevent a consumer from requesting a co-badged card (that is, a credit or debit card on which an issuer has put a competing brand); and (5) the separation of brand and processing in terms of accounting, organization and decision making. while the proposed legislation does not directly regulate network fees, it makes clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions. final legislation, which could differ, is expected to be adopted in 2015. in the united states, federal reserve regulations limit per-transaction u.s. debit and prepaid interchange fees for certain large issuers to 22 cents plus five basis points (with certain adjustments and exemptions), subject to reexamination and potential re-setting. while not directly regulating network fees, the rules make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions. the regulations require debit and prepaid cards to be enabled with two unaffiliated payments networks. moreover, an issuer or payments network may not inhibit the ability of any person that accepts or honors a debit or prepaid card to direct the routing of the card transaction for processing over any network enabled on the card. legislation regulating the level of domestic interchange fees has been enacted, or is being considered, in many jurisdictions, including australia, hungary, israel, poland, south africa and spain. a negative decision with respect to our cross-border interchange fees within europe for consumer credit and debit cards was upheld in 2014 by the european court of justice. several jurisdictions have recently created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including brazil, india, mexico, russia and the united kingdom (which is considering designating mastercard as a payments system). 14 table of contents the minister of finance in canada has decided not to regulate interchange fees in light of commitments by mastercard and other payment networks to voluntarily reduce weighted average domestic credit interchange fees. it is still considering revising the voluntary code of conduct for payment card industry participants to address transparency of acceptance costs, premium payment products and merchant discount rates. additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation. such litigation includes: in the united states, merchants filed class action or individual suits against mastercard, visa and their customers alleging that our interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. the settlement of these claims has received final court approval, which is being appealed. in canada, a number of class action suits have been filed against mastercard, visa and a number of large canadian banks relating to mastercard and visa interchange fees and rules related to interchange fees, including honor all cards and no surcharge rules. in the united kingdom, a number of retailers have filed claims against us with respect to mastercard's cross-border interchange fees and its u.k. and ireland domestic interchange fees. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding litigation, proceedings and inquiries related to interchange fees. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. in addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them. this could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. additionally, increased focus by jurisdictions on regulating payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. in order to successfully compete in such an environment, we and our customers would each need to adjust our strategies accordingly. new regulatory activity with respect to the payments industry in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations (or impact pending regulatory proceedings) in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. in some areas, such as interchange fees, we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on their approaches. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. for example, the european court of justice's decision in september 2014 upholding the european commission's decision with respect to cross-border interchange fees within europe has increased the possibility of additional competition authorities in european member states opening proceedings concerning domestic interchange fees, as well as the possibility of an adverse outcome for us in related and pending matters. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions (such as the federal reserve's rules in the united states) could lead to regulation of other consumer products (such as credit). as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involving other products, affecting our business. these include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 15 table of contents government actions preferring or protecting providers of domestic payment services in certain countries may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries, such as china, russia, ukraine and india, could act (or have acted) to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or may otherwise create (or have created) and support its own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. as an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. in particular, russia has amended its national payments systems laws to require all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. in addition, regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. such developments would, and in russia will, prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for domestic or regional customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. limitations on our ability to restrict merchants from surcharging credit card transactions could impact the use of electronic payments, resulting in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes that could in turn materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so). additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. it is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change, which could make credit card programs less desirable to consumers in the united states and elsewhere. in the event that such merchants surcharge credit cards, this could result in consumers having a less favorable view of our products and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards and devices issued and could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. we are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. as we continue to develop products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data across multiple channels. this expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business. moreover, due to recent account data compromise events at large, u.s.-based retailers, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may require changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information. failure to comply with the these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. any additions or changes to regulations in these areas (as well as the manner in which such laws could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring and the development of information-based products and solutions. in addition, these regulations may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue. any of these changes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 16 table of contents our participation in the payments industry subjects us to various other regulations globally that affect the industry, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and other devices are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: anti-money laundering and economic sanctions - we are subject to aml laws and regulations, including the usa patriot act in the united states, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by ofac, including restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. we have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable aml and ofac sanctions requirements. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the sdn list. however, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system. activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customer's association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction. any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and/or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, geopolitical events and resulting ofac sanctions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business. for example, in response to the global sanctions imposed as a result of the ukraine conflict, the russian government amended its national payments systems laws requiring all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. there is a risk that in the future other jurisdictions (or actors sympathetic to these jurisdictions) may take similar or other actions in response to sanctions that could negatively impact us. cfpb - in the united states, the cfpb has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including credit, debit and prepaid cards. the cfpb also has supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority over certain financial institutions , their service providers, and other entities , which could include us due to our processing of credit, debit, and prepaid transactions. it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will regulate broader aspects of payment card networks. increased central bank oversight - several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry (including the united states, the united kingdom, russia , mexico and brazil), are in some cases considering designating them as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. if mastercard were designated systemically important , it would be subject to new regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities, which could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements. also, mastercard could be required to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to issuers and more generally to banks and other financial institutions, which impact us as a consequence. existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers. regulation of internet and digital transactions - proposed legislation in various jurisdictions relating to internet gambling and other digital areas such as cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties. each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. 17 table of contents liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any of these material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments. potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the united states, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments. this could adversely impact our results of operations. see also note 17 (income taxes) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. business risks substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; and payments networks. within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover, unionpay, jcb and paypal among others. in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, visa has greater volume, scale and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end-to-end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must typically rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, even when they operate programs that utilize a four-party system, these competitors have generally not attracted the same level of regulatory or legislative scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. our customers can also develop their own competitive services. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could 18 table of contents put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. potential future changes in the competitive landscape, including disintermediation from other participants in the payments value chain, also could harm our business. we expect that there may be future changes in the competitive landscape, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment methods (including cryptocurrencies) and programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard products. competitors, customers, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our transaction processing. these products could replace our own processing offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. new services and technologies that we develop may be impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards related to emv, tokenization or other safety and security technologies. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. continued intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. continuing consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation were to continue in the banking industry, it may result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have 19 table of contents a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which we have a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest customers, our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. merchants' continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are an important constituency in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations. see our risk factor in this part i, item 1a with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. the exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships certain customers have with our competitors may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we depend significantly on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers to manage our payments system and our failure to maintain those relationships may materially and adversely affect our business. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants and governments, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in 20 table of contents turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - business risks in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards and other payment devices carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our products and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. the perception of our brands and reputation may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. 21 table of contents the impact of global economic events in financial markets and on our customers, merchants and cardholders could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse economic trends (including distress in financial markets, turmoil in specific economies around the world and additional government intervention) have impacted the environment in which we operate. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent. low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders. budgetary concerns in the united states and other countries around the world could affect the united states and other specific sovereign credit ratings, impact consumer confidence and spending and increase the risks of operating in those countries. our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable. our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. our customers may decrease spending for value-added services. government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers. see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report for further discussion of our settlement exposure. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. a decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. general economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending, as well as the impact of events in the united states such as deadlines on the debt limit) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices. also, as we are headquartered in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. 22 table of contents as a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity. we may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss. in addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds. our mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $42 billion as of december 31, 2014 . we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $3 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. in the event that mastercard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, mastercard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from the failed customer. customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of mastercard. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited. as a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. moreover, during 2014 , many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by economic events in the global financial markets. these conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of december 31, 2014 , see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this report. separately, mastercard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform. any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. a failure or breach of our information security systems or infrastructure could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as mastercard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity (including sanctions) could also lead to information security threats and attacks by jurisdictions affected by such activity (or by other actors sympathetic to those jurisdictions). to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to mastercard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. 23 table of contents we maintain an information security program that is reviewed by our board of directors, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. we also test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities. despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of mastercard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. if our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our results of operations would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems and other key service offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. a disaster that occurs at, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially reduce our results of operations. account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. we, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices. in addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as pci-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions. we routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of cardholders. these events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants' or third-party processors' systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems. further data security breaches may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. while most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, we could face damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, as well as the trend toward electronic payments, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and/or regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. cards that use magnetic-stripe technology, the predominant payment technology in the united states, continue to raise heightened vulnerabilities to fraud relative to other technologies due to the static nature of the 24 table of contents information on the magnetic stripe. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, which constitutes an increasing number of transactions. in addition, as outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. rapid technological developments in our industry present both operational and legal challenges (including potential intellectual property exposure) which could impact our results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless payment devices), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes by the complexity of our systems. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2014 , approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in addition, the integration of any acquisition or investment (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. 25 table of contents risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure our organizational documents and delaware law contain terms and provisions that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, except in limited circumstances, no customer or former customer of mastercard, or any operator, customer or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent; a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; and any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors. the foundation's substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact its approval of, or discourage, corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders. as of february 5, 2015 , the foundation owned 116,918,728 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.5% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to april 26, 2026, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $74 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2014 related to the hedging program. a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the company's financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . in addition, there was no material equity price risk at december 31, 2014 or 2013 . foreign exchange risk we enter into forward contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currency. we also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. the objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward contracts are generally less than 18 months. 42 table of contents as of december 31, 2014 , all forward contracts to purchase and sell foreign currency had been entered into with customers of mastercard. mastercard's derivative contracts are summarized below: december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value (in millions) commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 47 $ 4 $ 23 $ (1 ) commitments to sell foreign currency 614 27 1,722 1 our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our investments in debt securities, which we generally hold as available-for-sale investments. our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company's available for sale investments for debt securities as of december 31 was as follows: maturity fair market value at december 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 and there- after financial instrument summary terms (in millions) municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 135 $ 82 $ 48 $ 2 $ $ $ 3 corporate securities fixed / variable interest 618 325 211 82 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 199 132 52 2 13 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 178 4 59 75 28 7 5 other fixed / variable interest 25 15 5 1 4 total $ 1,155 $ 558 $ 375 $ 162 $ 28 $ 7 $ 25 maturity financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and there- after (in millions) municipal securities fixed / variable interest $ 267 $ 200 $ 57 $ 10 $ $ $ corporate securities fixed / variable interest 1,426 646 464 290 9 15 2 u.s. government and agency securities fixed / variable interest 560 376 122 31 12 9 10 asset-backed securities fixed / variable interest 364 307 49 8 other fixed / variable interest 90 33 37 7 2 11 total $ 2,707 $ 1,562 $ 729 $ 346 $ 23 $ 24 $ 23 at december 31, 2014 , we have a credit facility which provides liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by the company's customers. this credit facility has variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. see note 12 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this report for additional information on the company's current and prior credit facilities. we had no borrowings under the current or prior credit facilities at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 . 43 table of contentsrisk factors 15 also see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. payments system regulation . regulators in several countries around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in their countries. such authority could result in regulation of various aspects of our business. additionally, we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers. for example, certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council under its authority to examine financial institutions' technology service providers. preferential or protective government actions. some governments have taken actions to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, as well as create their own national providers. no-surcharge rules. we have historically implemented policies in certain regions that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so), including in australia and canada. additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program. due to constant changes to the nature of data, regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. this includes the recent ruling by the european court of justice that invalidated the eu-u.s. safe harbor treaty and the newly announced eu-u.s. privacy shield. anti-money laundering. mastercard is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations, including the usa patriot act. we have implemented a comprehensive aml program designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity. our aml compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. economic sanctions . we are subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) restricting financial transactions and other dealings with crimea, cuba, iran, north korea, syria and sudan and with persons and entities included in ofac's list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). iran, syria and sudan have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries or in the crimea region and do not license financial institutions domiciled there. we have established a risk-based compliance program that includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent us from having business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. this includes obligating issuers and acquirers to screen cardholders and merchants, respectively, against the sdn list. consumer financial protection bureau . the consumer financial protection bureau has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the united states, including consumer credit, deposit, payment and similar products. 13 table of contents central bank oversight . several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry are in some cases considering designating them as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. this includes the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) in the united states. such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. to date, mastercard has not been designated systemically important. issuer practice regulation. our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting mastercard as a consequence. such regulations and investigations have been related to campus cards, bank overdraft practices, fees issuers charge to cardholders and transparency of terms and conditions. regulation of internet and digital transactions . various jurisdictions have enacted or have proposed regulation related to internet transactions. for example, under the unlawful internet gambling enforcement act in the united states, payment transactions must be coded and blocked for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payments system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. we may also be impacted by evolving laws surrounding gambling, including fantasy sports. jurisdictions are also considering regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas that could impact us, such as cyber-security, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact us, including evolving laws surrounding marijuana, prepaid payroll cards, virtual currencies, payment card add-on products, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. seasonality see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-seasonality in part ii, item 7. financial information about geographic areas see note 21 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 11,300 persons, of which approximately 6,200 were employed outside of the united states. additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through mastercard incorporated's principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 13 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. website and sec reports the company's internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. in addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about mastercard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting e-mail alerts in the investor relations section of our corporate website. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors payments systems legal and regulatory challenges global legal, regulatory and legislative focus on the payments industry may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations interchange fees are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. although we do not earn revenues from interchange fees, they are a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we see on our cards. we have historically set default interchange fees in the united states and certain other countries. in some jurisdictions, however, interchange fees and related practices are subject to regulatory activity and litigation that have limited our ability to establish default rates. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation. more broadly, regulators in several jurisdictions increasingly have been leveraging, or seeking to establish, the authority to regulate certain aspects of payments systems such as ours. these regulations have, and could further result in, obligations or restrictions with respect to not only interchange fees but also the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. these obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems. examples of activity related to interchange fees and payments systems include: the european union adopted legislation in 2015 regulating electronic payments issued and acquired within the european economic area, including caps on consumer credit and debit interchange fees and the separation of brand and processing. see business-recent business and legal/regulatory developments in part i, item 1 for more details. 15 table of contents the european commission issued a statement of objections in july 2015 related to our interregional interchange fees and central acquiring rules within the european economic area. legislation regulating the level of domestic interchange fees has been enacted, or is being considered, in many jurisdictions. these jurisdictions include australia, where the reserve bank of australia has proposed further reductions to debit interchange, as well as interchange fee caps on commercial and cross-border transactions. several jurisdictions have created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including the united kingdom and india (which have designated us as a payments system subject to regulation), as well as brazil, mexico and russia. additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation. such litigation includes individual and/or class action suits filed by merchants against mastercard, visa and our customers in the united states and canada, as well as claims filed by retailers against mastercard in the united kingdom and other european jusrisdictions. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding litigation, proceedings and inquiries related to interchange fees. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. in addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them. this could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. additionally, increased focus by jurisdictions on regulating payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. in order to successfully compete in such an environment, we and our customers would each need to adjust our strategies accordingly. limitations on our ability to restrict merchant surcharging could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so). additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. it is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change. this could result in consumers viewing our products less favorably and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. current regulatory activity could be extended to additional jurisdictions or products, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. in some areas, such as interchange fees, we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on their approaches. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. for example, a decision in europe related to interchange fees could increase the possibility of additional competition authorities in european member states opening interchange fee proceedings. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions could lead to regulation of other products (such as credit). 16 table of contents as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involving other products, affecting our business. these include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. preferential or protective government actions preferential and protective government actions related to domestic payment services could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries, such as china, russia and india, have acted, or in the future may act, to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or have created, or may in the future create, their own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies, and may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers. for example: governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. in particular, russia has amended its national payments systems laws to require all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. as a result, all mastercard domestic transactions in russia are now processed by that system instead of by mastercard. regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east and a number of countries in south east asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. such developments would prevent, and in russia have prevented, us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for domestic or regional customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. privacy, data protection and security regulation of privacy, data protection and security could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. we are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. as we continue to develop products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data across multiple channels. this expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may require changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information. in addition, due to the european court of justice's recent invalidation of the safe harbor treaty, we may be subject to enhanced compliance and operational requirements in the european union. failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. new requirements in these areas, either from new regulations or laws or any additions or changes (as well as the manner in which they could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring, the development of information-based products and solutions and technology operations. in addition, these requirements may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue. moreover, due to recent account data compromise events at large, u.s.-based retailers, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation and requirements. any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 17 table of contents regulation related to our participation in the payments industry regulations affecting the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many jurisdictions in which our cards and other devices are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: anti-money laundering and economic sanctions - we are subject to aml laws and regulations, including the usa patriot act in the united states, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by ofac, including restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on ofac sanctions lists (including the sdn list). we have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable aml and ofac sanctions requirements. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against ofac sanctions lists. however, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system. activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customer's association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction. any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and/or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, geopolitical events and resulting ofac sanctions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business. for example, in response to the global sanctions imposed as a result of the ukraine conflict, the russian government amended its national payments systems laws requiring all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. there is a risk that in the future other jurisdictions (or their sympathizers) may take similar or other actions in response to sanctions that could negatively impact us. consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) - in the united states, the cfpb could regulate consumer financial products, including amending existing requirements or imposing new ones. the cfpb also has supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority over certain financial institutions , their service providers, and other entities , which could include us due to our processing of credit, debit and prepaid transactions. it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will regulate broader aspects of payment card networks. increased central bank oversight - several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry are in some cases considering designating them as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. if mastercard were designated systemically important in a particular jurisdiction, it would be subject to new regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities, which could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements. also, mastercard could be required to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations, which impact us as a consequence. existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers. regulation of internet and digital transactions - proposed legislation in various jurisdictions relating to internet gambling and other digital areas such as cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties. each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. 18 table of contents competition substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; cryptocurrencies; ach payment services; and other payments networks, which can have several competitive impacts on our business: within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover, unionpay, jcb and paypal among others. in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, visa has greater volume, scale and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. visa has also announced its purchase of visa europe, which will create a global company that may provide visa with additional competitive advantages. some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate three-party payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. these competitors may derive competitive advantages from their business models: operators of three-party payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must typically rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. our inability to control end-to-end processing may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. even when competitors operate programs that utilize a four-party system, these competitors have generally not attracted the same level of regulatory or legislative scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. disintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. as the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process (and in some cases are processing) transactions directly with issuers. additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. 19 table of contents large digital companies and other technology companies that leverage our technology, platforms and network to deliver their products could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete as physical and digital payments converge. competitors, customers, large digital and other technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our transaction switching and payment offerings. these products could replace our own processing and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our mastercard-branded cards and enabled payment devices, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. technology rapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways: technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce and cryptocurrency and block chain technology, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard products. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. the inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact mastercard offerings. our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to emv, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes. 20 table of contents our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. we work with large digital companies and other technology companies that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers. our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. information security and service disruptions information security failures or breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as mastercard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to mastercard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. we maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage (each reviewed by our board of directors and its audit committee), and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. we also periodically test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities. despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of mastercard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third- 21 table of contents party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our results of operations. our transaction processing systems and other offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster, including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. a disaster that occurs at, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially reduce our results of operations. customers losing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. these developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 22 table of contents stakeholders our failure to maintain our relationships with issuers and acquirers may materially and adversely affect our business. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - settlement risk in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. merchants' continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and increase our incentive program costs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are an important constituency in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to continue to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope and influence. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations. see our risk factor in this part i, item 1a with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer. our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. 23 table of contents our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. settlement and third-party obligation risk our role as guarantor exposes us to risk of loss or illiquidity. as a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity: we may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss. although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds. our gross settlement exposure for our brands was approximately $40 billion as of december 31, 2015 . while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day (including the availability of our revolving credit facility), are able to seek assignment of underlying receivables from a failed customer and may charge customers for settlement incurred during mastercard's ordinary course activities, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited. as a result: concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business and liquidity. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. these conditions subject us to increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices, see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. separately, mastercard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform. any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. global economic and political environment global financial market activity could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse economic trends (including distress in financial markets, turmoil in specific economies around the world and additional government intervention) have impacted the environment in which we operate. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults, 24 table of contents implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability, and default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers. consumer spending can be negatively impacted by declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery, which can change cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent, and low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment. government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. a decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction switching fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. negative trends in consumer spending could negatively impact our results of operations. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices. also, as we are headquartered in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2015 , approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 25 table of contents reputational impact brand perception may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract consumers to our branded products and retain them depends upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . additionally, large digital companies and other technology companies who are our customers use our network to build their own acceptance brands, which could cause consumer confusion and decrease the value of our brand. moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. account data breaches could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. we, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices. in addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as pci-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions. we routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of cardholders. these events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants' or third-party processors' systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems. further data security breaches may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, as well as the trend toward electronic payments, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. in addition to reputational concerns, while most of the lawsuits resulting from account data breaches do not involve direct claims against us, we could face damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. fraudulent activity could damage our reputation and encourage regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. cards that use magnetic-stripe technology, the most widely-used payment technology in the united states, continue to raise heightened vulnerabilities to fraud relative to other technologies due to the static nature of the information on the magnetic stripe. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as online commerce, which constitutes an increasing percentage of transactions. in addition, as outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. acquisitions acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate them. in addition, such an integration may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. 26 table of contents moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. litigation liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law and those involving intellectual property clams. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. class a common stock and governance structure provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions and have an impact on change-in-control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions, including provisions that could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent; a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; and any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors. the foundation's substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders. as of february 4, 2016 , the foundation owned 115,446,594 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.6% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to april 27 table of contents 26, 2026, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $128 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2015 related to the hedging program. a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the company's investments at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . in addition, there was no material equity price risk at december 31, 2015 or 2014 . foreign exchange risk we enter into derivative contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currency. we may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. the objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. foreign currency exposures are managed together through our foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in note 20 (foreign exchange risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii,risk factors 17 also see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. payments system regulation . regulators in several countries around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in their countries. such authority has resulted in regulation of various aspects of our business, including interchange fees in various jurisdictions (described above) and no-surcharging rules. in the european union, legislation requires us to separate our scheme activities (brand, products, franchise and licensing) from our switched transactions and other processing in terms of how we go to market, make decisions and organize our structure. additionally, several jurisdictions have created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including the united kingdom's payments systems regulator (psr) (which has designated us as a payments system subject to regulation) and the national bank of belgium. preferential or protective government actions. some governments have taken action to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, as well as to create their own national providers. no-surcharge rules. we have historically implemented policies in certain regions that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions (including australia and canada) have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or have indicated interest in doing so). additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the u.s. merchant class litigation, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. payments oversight . several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry. in some cases, these regulators could designate certain payments networks as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. this includes the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ) in the united states. designated systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. to date, mastercard has not been designated systemically important. however, certain jurisdictions have begun to employ elements of systemically important analysis in their review of mastercard licenses or other applications, and may increasingly do so in the future. financial sector oversight. we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers. for example, certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council under its authority to examine financial institutions' technology service providers. additionally, the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ), which has significant federal authority to regulate consumer financial products in the united states, has supervisory authority over companies such as mastercard that provide services to financial institutions that are subject to the cfpb and that issue and acquire our consumer credit, deposit, payment and similar products. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere around the world. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program. due to constant changes to the nature of data, regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. this includes the 2016 general data protection regulation (gdpr) passed by the european parliament, the 2015 ruling by the european court of justice that invalidated the eu-u.s. safe harbor treaty and the eu-u.s. privacy shield. 14 table of contents anti-money laundering. mastercard is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations, including the usa patriot act. we have implemented a comprehensive aml program designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity. our aml compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. economic sanctions . we are subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) restricting financial transactions and other dealings with crimea, cuba, iran, north korea, sudan and syria and with persons and entities included in ofac's list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries or in the crimea region and do not license entities domiciled there. we have established a risk-based compliance program that includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent us from having unlawful business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. this includes obligating issuers and acquirers to screen cardholders and merchants, respectively, against the sdn list. issuer practice regulation. our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting mastercard as a consequence. such regulations and investigations have been related to campus cards, bank overdraft practices, fees issuers charge to cardholders and the transparency of terms and conditions. additionally, regulations such as psd2 in europe require financial institutions to provide new third-party processors and other service providers access to consumer account information at financial institutions, enabling them to initiate a transaction directly with consumers. regulation of internet and digital transactions . various jurisdictions have enacted or have proposed regulation related to internet transactions. for example, under the unlawful internet gambling enforcement act in the united states, payment transactions must be coded and blocked for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payments system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. we may also be impacted by evolving laws surrounding gambling, including fantasy sports. certain jurisdictions are also considering regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas that could impact us, such as cyber-security, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact us, including evolving laws surrounding marijuana, prepaid payroll cards, virtual currencies, payment card add-on products, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. seasonality see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-seasonality in part ii, item 7. financial information about geographic areas see note 21 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 11,900 persons, of whom approximately 6,600 were employed outside of the united states. additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through our principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 13 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. 15 table of contents website and sec reports our internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our corporate website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. in addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about mastercard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting e-mail alerts in the investor relations section of our corporate website. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available for review, without charge, on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our corporate website is not incorporated by reference into this report. you may also read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at its public reference room at 100 f street n.e., washington, d.c. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, our filings are available electronically from the sec at www.sec.gov. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory payments systems challenges global regulatory, legislative and litigation focus on the payments industry may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. interchange rates are a significant component of the costs that merchants pay in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. although we do not earn revenues from interchange, interchange rates can impact the volume of transactions we see on our cards. if interchange rates are too high, merchants may stop accepting our products or route debit transactions away from our network. if interchange rates are too low, issuers may stop promoting our cards, eliminate or reduce loyalty rewards programs or other cardholder benefits (e.g. free checking, low interest rates on balances), or charge fees to cardholders (e.g. annual fees or late payment fees). historically, we have set interchange rates in the united states and certain other countries. in some jurisdictions, such as the united states and the european union, however, interchange rates related to certain products and related practices are subject to regulatory activity and litigation that have limited our ability to establish these rates. regulators, legislatures, and merchant groups in a number of countries have implemented or are seeking interchange rate reductions through legislation, competition and central bank regulation and litigation. more broadly, regulators increasingly have been seeking to establish or expand their authority to regulate certain aspects of payments systems such as ours, beyond just interchange rates. these regulations have established, and could further expand, obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to financial institutions for consumers, the 17 table of contents countries in which our products and services may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. these obligations and restrictions may further increase and could conflict as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems. examples of regulatory and legislative activity related to interchange fees and payments systems include: the european union adopted its interchange fee regulation in 2015 regulating electronic payments issued and acquired within the eea, including caps on consumer credit and debit interchange fees and the separation of brand and processing (which mastercard implemented in 2016). the european commission issued a statement of objections in july 2015 related to our interregional interchange fees and central acquiring rules within the eea, to which we have responded. legislation regulating the level of domestic interchange rates has been enacted, or is being considered, in many jurisdictions. for example, debit interchange in the united states is capped by statute for certain regulated entities. also, the reserve bank of australia has proposed further reductions to debit interchange rates, as well as interchange rate caps on commercial and cross-border transactions. several jurisdictions have created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including the united kingdom and india (both of which have designated us as a payments system subject to regulation), as well as belgium, brazil, mexico and russia. merchants and consumers are also seeking interchange fee reductions and acceptance rule changes through litigation. such litigation includes individual and/or class action suits filed by merchants against mastercard, visa and our customers in the united states (where approval of a 2012 settlement agreement was overturned by the u.s. court of appeals in 2016) and canada, claims filed by retailers against mastercard in the united kingdom and other european jurisdictions and a collective action filed by consumers in the united kingdom. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding litigation and regulatory proceedings and inquiries related to interchange fees. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange rates, issuers may be less willing to participate in our four-party payments system, or may reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products, reducing the attractiveness of our products to consumers. in particular, any changes to our interregional interchange fees as a result of the european commission's statement of objections could impact our cross-border transaction activity disproportionately versus competitors that are not subject to similar reductions. these and other impacts could lower transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could reduce the benefits associated with our products or choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. in addition, issuers could seek to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them, particularly if regulation has a disproportionate impact on mastercard than on our competitors in terms of the fees we can charge. this could make our products less desirable to consumers, reduce the volume of transactions and our profitability, and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products. we are devoting substantial resources to defending our right to establish interchange rates in regulatory proceedings, litigation, and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory, or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our ability to establish interchange rates, any resulting legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages, the amount of which could be material. additionally, increased focus on regulation of payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens or otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our brand and reputation. in order to successfully compete in such an environment, we and our customers would each need to adjust our strategies accordingly . 18 table of contents limitations on our ability to restrict merchant surcharging could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using mastercard products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so). additionally, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. it is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change. this could result in consumers viewing our products less favorably and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. current regulatory activity could be extended to additional jurisdictions or products, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. in some areas, such as interchange fees, we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on their approaches. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. for example, a decision in europe related to interchange fees could increase the possibility of additional competition authorities in european member states opening interchange fee proceedings. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may lead lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions could lead to regulation of other products (such as credit). as a result, the risks to our business created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential it has to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involve other products. these include matters like interchange rates, potential direct regulation of mastercard's network fees and pricing, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business to meet the varying requirements. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. preferential or protective government actions preferential and protective government actions related to domestic payment services could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries, such as china, russia and india, have acted, or in the future may act, to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or have created, or may in the future create, their own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies, and may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers. for example: governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. in particular, we are currently excluded from domestic processing in china and are seeking market access, which is uncertain and subject to receiving a more detailed interpretation of final regulations issued in 2016 by the people's bank of china. additionally, russia has amended its national payments systems laws to require all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. as a result, all mastercard domestic transactions in russia are currently processed by that system instead of by mastercard. regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east and a number of countries in south east asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. such developments prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for domestic or regional customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. 19 table of contents privacy, data protection and security regulation of privacy, data protection and security could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. we are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. as we continue to develop products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data across multiple channels. this expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may require changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information. in addition, due to the european parliament's passage of the general data protection regulation and the european court of justice's invalidation of the safe harbor treaty, we are subject to enhanced compliance and operational requirements in the european union. failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. new requirements in these areas, either from new regulations or laws or any additions or changes (as well as the manner in which they could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring, the development of information-based products and solutions and technology operations. in addition, these requirements may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue. moreover, due to account data compromise events, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation and requirements. any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. regulation related to our participation in the payments industry regulations affecting the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many jurisdictions in which our cards and other devices are used. many of our customers are also subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions that, at times, consequently affect us. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: increased payments oversight - several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry are in some cases considering designating certain payments networks as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. as a result, mastercard could be subject to new regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities (including risk management policies and procedures, collateral requirements, participant default policies and procedures, the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions, and capital and financial resource requirements). also, mastercard could be required to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system. anti-money laundering and economic sanctions - we are subject to aml laws and regulations, including the usa patriot act in the united states, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by ofac, including restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on ofac sanctions lists (including the sdn list). we have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable aml and ofac sanctions requirements. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against ofac sanctions lists. however, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system. activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customer's association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction. any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and/or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, geopolitical events and resulting ofac sanctions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business. for example, in response to the 2014 global sanctions imposed as a result of the ukraine conflict, the russian government amended its national payments systems laws requiring all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. there is a risk that in the future other 20 table of contents jurisdictions (or their sympathizers) may take similar or other actions in response to sanctions that could negatively impact us. financial sector oversight - in the united states, the cfpb regulates consumer financial products, and can continue to do so by amending existing requirements or imposing new ones. the cfpb also has supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority over certain financial institutions, their service providers, and other entities, which include us because of the services we provide to financial institutions that issue and acquire our products. it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the cfpb will regulate broader aspects of payment card networks. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations, which impact us as a consequence. existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers. in addition to regulation and investigation of issuer practices, regulations such as psd2 in europe require financial institutions to provide new third-party processors and other service providers access to consumer account information and the ability to initiate transactions directly with the consumer. this could enable these entities to disintermediate issuers by providing value-added services directly to consumers, and disintermediate payment networks such as ours by routing transactions to other forms of payment. regulation of internet and digital transactions - proposed legislation in various jurisdictions relating to internet gambling and other digital areas such as cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment transactions. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties. each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. litigation liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law and those involving intellectual property claims. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could impact our relationships with our customers, including reducing the volume of business that we do with them, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 21 table of contents business and operations competition and technology substantial and intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; cryptocurrencies; ach payment services; and other payments networks, which can have several competitive impacts on our business: within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover, unionpay, jcb and paypal among others. in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, visa has greater volume, scale and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. visa's acquisition of visa europe in 2016 may provide it with additional competitive advantages. some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate three-party payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. these competitors may derive competitive advantages from their business models: operators of three-party payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must typically rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. our inability to control end-to-end processing may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to introduce value-added products and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. even when competitors operate programs that utilize a four-party system, these competitors have generally not attracted the same level of regulatory or legislative scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 22 table of contents disintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. as the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process (and in some cases are processing) transactions directly with issuers. additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. regulation such as psd2 in europe may disintermediate us by enabling new third-party processors and other service providers opportunities to route payment transactions away from our network and towards other forms of payment. although we partner with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that leverage our technology, platforms and network to deliver their products, they could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete in the digital economy. competitors, customers, technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our switched transaction and payment offerings. these products could replace our own processing and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our mastercard-branded cards and enabled payment devices, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers if they require terms that we are unable or unwilling to offer, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. rapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our overall business and results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways: technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce and cryptocurrency and block chain technology, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard products. 23 table of contents we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. the inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact mastercard offerings. our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to emv, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes. our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. our ability to develop new technologies and reflect technological changes in our payments offerings will require resources, which may result in additional expenses. we work with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers. our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. information security and service disruptions information security failures or breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as mastercard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, future attacks or breaches could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services, which in turn could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such attacks or breaches could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. in addition, they could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to mastercard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our 24 table of contents customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. we maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage (each reviewed by our board of directors and its audit committee), and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. we also periodically test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities. despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer material breaches and resulting losses in the future, or that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover all losses. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of mastercard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our overall business and results of operations. our transaction processing systems and other offerings may experience interruptions as a result of technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks, because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially adversely affect our overall business and our results of operations. financial institution customers and other stakeholder relationships losing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest financial institution customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. most of our financial institution customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest financial institution customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. 25 table of contents consolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. these developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and, in many jurisdictions, their ability to effectively manage or help manage our brands. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their respective relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - settlement and third-party obligation risk in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations. merchants' continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and increase our incentive program costs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are important constituents in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to continue to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope and influence. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations. see our risk factor in this part i, item 1a with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. certain larger merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices. we also make payments to certain merchants to incentivize them to create co-branded payment programs with us. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer. 26 table of contents our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. settlement and third-party obligations our role as guarantor exposes us to risk of loss or illiquidity. we are a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of: principal customers, which are customers that participate directly in mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate customers affiliate debit licensees in this capacity, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity: we may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss. although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds. our gross settlement exposure for our brands was approximately $37 billion as of december 31, 2016 . we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day (including the availability of our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program) and we are able to seek assignment of underlying receivables from a failed customer and may charge customers for settlement losses incurred during mastercard's ordinary course activities. we also minimize the contingent risk of a settlement failure using various strategies, including monitoring our customers' financial condition, their economic and political operating environments and their compliance with our participation standards. however, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited. as a result: concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business and liquidity. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 27 table of contents financial institution customers in general are directly and indirectly impacted by economic conditions in global financial markets. these conditions subject us to risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices, see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. separately, mastercard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform. should an event occur that would trigger any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies, such an obligation could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. global economic and political environment global financial market activity could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse economic trends (including distress in financial markets, turmoil in specific economies around the world and additional government intervention) have impacted the environment in which we operate. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: our customers may: restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new mastercard products to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers consumer spending can be negatively impacted by: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery, which can change cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment government intervention (including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments on or in our financial institution customers), as well as uncertainty due to changing political regimes in executive, legislative and/or judicial branches of government, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. a decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and fees related to switched transactions. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with the levels and destinations of cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. additionally, any regulation of interregional interchange fees could negatively impact our cross-border activity, which could decrease the revenue we receive. any such decline in cross-border activity could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 28 table of contents negative trends in consumer spending could negatively impact our results of operations. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices. also, as we are headquartered in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2016 , approximately 62% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. reputational impact negative brand perception may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract consumers to our branded products and retain them depends upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . additionally, large digital companies and other technology companies who are our customers use our network to build their own acceptance brands, which could cause consumer confusion and decrease the value of our brand. moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands by disseminating rapidly and globally actual or perceived damaging information about us or our products. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. account data breaches could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. we, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices. in addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as pci-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions. we routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of cardholders. these events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants' or third-party processors' systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems. further data security breaches may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, as well as the trend toward electronic payments, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. 29 table of contents in addition to reputational concerns, while most of the lawsuits resulting from account data breaches do not involve direct claims against us and while we have releases from many issuers and acquirers, we could still face damage claims, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. fraudulent activity could damage our reputation and encourage regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. cards that use magnetic-stripe technology, still widely used in the united states, continue to raise heightened vulnerabilities to fraud relative to other technologies due to the static nature of the information on the magnetic stripe. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as online commerce, which constitutes an increasing percentage of transactions. in addition, as outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. while we are taking measures to mitigate risks associated with magnetic stripes (via increased migration to emv) and making digital payments more secure through mdes, increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation. these occurrences could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. acquisitions acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to evaluate and/or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate them, despite original intentions and focused efforts. in addition, such an integration may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply. this compliance could increase our costs, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. class a common stock and governance structure provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions and have an impact on change-in-control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions, including provisions that could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the mastercard foundation (the foundation ) is disqualified from service on our board of directors 30 table of contents the foundation's substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders. as of february 10, 2017 , the foundation owned 112,834,232 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.7% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to april 26, 2026, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $80 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2016 related to the hedging program. a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on the company's investments at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . in addition, there was no material equity price risk at december 31, 2016 or 2015 . foreign exchange risk our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. we enter into derivative contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currencies of the entity. we may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. the objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. foreign currency exposures are managed together through our foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in note 20 (foreign exchange risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii,risk factors 18 also see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. preferential or protective government actions. some governments have taken action to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, as well as to create their own national providers. payments system regulation . regulators in several countries around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in their countries. such authority has resulted in regulation of various aspects of our business. in the european union, legislation requires us to separate our scheme activities (brand, products, franchise and licensing) from our switched transactions and other processing in terms of how we go to market, make decisions and organize our structure. additionally, several jurisdictions have created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including the united kingdom's payments systems regulator (psr) (which has designated us (including our vocalink business) as a payments system subject to regulation) and the national bank of belgium. anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing, economic sanctions and anti-corruption. we are subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) and counter terrorist financing ( ctf ) laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act, as well as the various economic sanctions programs, including those imposed and administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). we have implemented a comprehensive aml/ctf program, comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, which is designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity and to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. the economic sanctions programs administered by ofac restrict financial transactions and other dealings with certain countries and geographies (specifically crimea, cuba, iran, north korea and syria) and with persons and entities included in ofac sanctions lists including its list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac and other applicable sanctions, including establishing a risk-based compliance program that has policies, procedures and controls designed to prevent us from having unlawful business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. as part of this program, we obligate issuers and acquirers to comply with their local sanctions obligations and the u.s. sanctions programs, including requiring the screening of account holders and merchants, respectively, against ofac sanctions lists (including the sdn list). iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist- 15 table of contents sponsoring states, and we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in any of these countries or geographies and do not license entities domiciled there. we are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, which, among other things, generally prohibit giving or offering payments or anything of value for the purpose of improperly influencing a business decision or to gain an unfair business advantage. we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls to proactively manage corruption risk. financial sector oversight. we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers. in addition, we are or may be subject to regulation by a number of agencies charged with oversight of, among other things, consumer protection, financial and banking matters. the regulators have supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority that we may be subject to because of the services we provide to financial institutions that issue and acquire our products. issuer practice legislation and regulation. our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting us as a consequence. such regulations and investigations have been related to payment card add-on products, campus cards, bank overdraft practices, fees issuers charge to account holders and the transparency of terms and conditions. additionally, regulations such as psd2 in the eea require financial institutions to provide third-party payment-processors access to consumer payment accounts, enabling them to provide payment initiation and account information services directly to consumers. regulation of internet and digital transactions . various jurisdictions have enacted or have proposed regulation related to internet transactions. the legislation applies to payments system participants, including us and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. we may also be impacted by evolving laws surrounding gambling, including fantasy sports. certain jurisdictions are also considering regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas that could impact us, such as cyber-security, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere around the world. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program. in the european union, we will be subject to the pending gdpr which goes into effect in may of 2018. this law will require a comprehensive data protection and privacy program to protect the personal and sensitive data of european citizens and residents. due to constant changes to the nature of data, regulations in this area are constantly evolving with regulatory and legislative authorities in numerous parts of the world considering proposals to protect information. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws are often uncertain and in a state of flux, thus requiring constant monitoring for compliance. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact us, including evolving laws surrounding marijuana, prepaid payroll cards, virtual currencies, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. seasonality see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-seasonality in part ii, item 7. financial information about geographic areas see note 21 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 13,400 persons, of whom approximately 7,900 were employed outside of the united states. 16 table of contents additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through our principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 13 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. website and sec reports our internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our corporate website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about mastercard by enrolling your email address by visiting investor alerts in the investor relations section of our corporate website. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available for review, without charge, on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our corporate website is not incorporated by reference into this report. you may also read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at its public reference room at 100 f street n.e., washington, d.c. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, our filings are available electronically from the sec at www.sec.gov. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory direct regulation of the payments industry global regulatory and legislative activity related to the payments industry may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. regulators increasingly seek to regulate, or establish or expand their authority to regulate, certain aspects of payments systems such as ours. some recent examples of regulatory and legislative activity include: the european union's adoption of its interchange fee regulation in 2015 regulating electronic payments issued and acquired within the eea, including caps on consumer credit and debit interchange fees (described in more detail in the risk factors below) and the separation of brand and switching (which mastercard implemented in 2016) several jurisdictions' creation or grant of authority to create new regulations that either have or would enable the authority to regulate or increase formal oversight over payment systems, including the united kingdom and india (both of which have designated us as a payments system subject to regulation), as well as brazil, hong kong, mexico and russia 18 table of contents the eea's implementation of the revised psd2, which requires: financial institutions to provide third party payment processors access to consumer payment accounts. this may enable these third party payment processors to route transactions away from mastercard products by offering account information or payment initiation services directly to people who currently use our products. a different standard for authentication of transactions (strong customer authentication ( sca ), as opposed to risk-based authentication). the new authentication standard requires additional verification information from consumers to complete transactions and may increase the number of transactions that consumers abandon if we are unable to ensure a frictionless authentication experience. an increase in the rate of abandoned transactions could adversely impact our volumes or other operations metrics. these regulations have established, and could further expand, obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services that we may offer to financial institutions for consumers, the countries in which our integrated products and services may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products or services. new regulations and oversight could also relate to our clearing and settlement activities (including risk management policies and procedures, collateral requirements, participant default policies and procedures, the ability to complete timely switching of financial transactions, and capital and financial resource requirements). in addition, several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry and, in some cases, are considering designating certain payments networks as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. these obligations, designations and restrictions may further expand and could conflict with each other as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems. as a result, increased regulation and oversight of payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens or otherwise increase our costs. such laws or compliance burdens could result in issuers being less willing to participate in our payments system, reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products (making our products less desirable to consumers), reduce the volume of domestic and cross-border transactions or other operational metrics, disintermediate us, impact our profitability and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products and services, all of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. regulators could also require us to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations, or could require customization with regard to such changes, which could impact market participant risk and therefore risk to us. such regulatory changes could lead to new or different criteria for participation in and access to our payments system by financial institutions or other customers. moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, civil damages or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our brand and reputation increased regulatory, legislative and litigation activity with respect to interchange rates could have an adverse impact on our business. interchange rates are a significant component of the costs that merchants pay in connection with the acceptance of our products. although we do not earn revenues from interchange, interchange rates can impact the volume of transactions we see on our payment products. if interchange rates are too high, merchants may stop accepting our products or route debit transactions away from our network. if interchange rates are too low, issuers may stop promoting our integrated products and services, eliminate or reduce loyalty rewards programs or other account holder benefits (e.g., free checking, low interest rates on balances), or charge fees to account holders (e.g., annual fees or late payment fees). governments and merchant groups in a number of countries have implemented or are seeking interchange rate reductions through legislation, competition law, central bank regulation and litigation. examples of regulatory and legislative activity include: a statement of objections issued by the european commission in july 2015 related to our interregional interchange fees and central acquiring rules within the eea, to which we have responded and remain in discussions. legislation regulating the level of domestic interchange rates that has been enacted, or is being considered, in many jurisdictions (for example, debit interchange in the united states is capped by statute for certain regulated entities). merchants and consumers are also seeking interchange fee reductions and acceptance rule changes through litigation. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details. 19 table of contents if issuers cannot collect or we are forced to reduce interchange rates, issuers may be less willing to participate in our four-party payments system, or may reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products, reducing the attractiveness of our products to consumers. in particular, any changes to interregional interchange fees as a result of the european commission's statement of objections could impact our cross-border transaction activity disproportionately versus competitors that are not subject to similar reductions. these and other impacts could lower transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could reduce the benefits associated with our products or choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. in addition, issuers could seek to decrease the expense of their payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them, particularly if regulation has a disproportionate impact on us as compared to our competitors in terms of the fees we can charge. this could make our products less desirable to consumers, reduce the volume of transactions and our profitability, and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products. we are devoting substantial resources to defending our right to establish interchange rates in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any of these activities could have a more positive or negative impact on us relative to our competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our ability to establish interchange rates, any resulting legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in us being fined and/or having to pay civil damages, the amount of which could be material. current regulatory activity could be extended to additional jurisdictions or products, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. regulators around the world increasingly replicate other regulators' approaches with regard to the regulation of payments and other industries. consequently, regulation in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations within a country, state or region involving one product may lead to regulation of similar or related products. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions could lead to regulation of other products (such as credit). as a result, the risks to our business created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential it has to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involve other products within any particular jurisdiction. these include matters like interchange rates, potential direct regulation of our network fees and pricing, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business to meet the varying requirements. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. limitations on our ability to restrict merchant surcharging could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using our products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so). additionally, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. it is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change. this could result in consumers viewing our products less favorably and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. 20 table of contents preferential or protective government actions preferential and protective government actions related to domestic payment services could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries have acted, or in the future may act, to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and switching providers, or have created, or may in the future create, their own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies, and may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers. for example: governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate switching of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. in particular, we are currently excluded from domestic switching in china and are seeking market access, which is uncertain and subject to a number of factors, including receiving regulatory approval. in 2017, people's bank of china issued the service guidelines for market access of bank card clearing institutions, which provide some guidance on the 2016 regulations on license application and operational requirements for network operators to process domestic payments in china. we have been engaged with regulators, business partners and other stakeholders in connection with steps required to advance an application. additionally, russia has amended its national payments systems laws to require all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch. as a result, all of our domestic transactions in russia are currently processed by that system instead of by us. geopolitical events and resulting ofac sanctions, adverse trade policies or other types of government actions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business. regional groups of countries, such as the gulf cooperation countries in the middle east and a number of countries in south east asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the switching of regional transactions. such developments prevent us from utilizing our global switching capabilities for domestic or regional customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. regulation related to our participation in the payments industry regulations that directly or indirectly affect the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many jurisdictions in which our integrated products and services are used. many of our customers are also subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions that, at times, consequently affect us. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business-government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing, economic sanctions and anti-corruption - we are subject to aml and ctf laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act, as well as the various economic sanctions programs, including those imposed and administered by ofac. we have implemented a comprehensive aml/ctf program, comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, which is designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity and to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. the economic sanctions programs administered by ofac restrict financial transactions and other dealings with certain countries and geographies (specifically crimea, cuba, iran, north korea and syria) and with persons and entities included in ofac sanctions lists including the sdn list. we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac and other applicable sanctions, including establishing a risk-based compliance program that has policies, procedures and controls designed to prevent us from having unlawful business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. as part of this program, we obligate issuers and acquirers to comply with their local sanctions obligations and the u.s. sanctions programs, including requiring the screening of account holders and merchants, respectively, against ofac sanctions lists (including the sdn list). iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states, and we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in any of these countries or geographies and do not license entities domiciled there. we are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. foreign corrupt 21 table of contents practices act and the u.k. bribery act, which, among other things, generally prohibit giving or offering payments or anything of value for the purpose of improperly influencing a business decision or to gain an unfair business advantage. we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls to proactively manage corruption risk. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement against us, or those with whom we may be associated, under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties, damages, and/or have a significant reputational impact. financial sector oversight - in the united states, we are subject to regulation by a number of agencies charged with oversight of, among other things, consumer protection, financial and banking matters. these regulators have supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority that we may be subject to because of the services we provide to financial institutions that issue and acquire our products. it is often not clear whether and/or to what extent these institutions will regulate broader aspects of payment networks. real-time account-based payment systems in 2017, we completed the acquisition of a controlling interest in vocalink. in the u.k., the bank of england has expanded its oversight of certain payment system providers that are systemically important to u.k.'s payment network. as a result of these changes, aspects of our vocalink business could become subject to the u.k. payment system oversight regime and be directly overseen by the bank of england. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations, which impact us as a consequence. in addition, certain regulations, such as psd2 in the eea, may disintermediate issuers. if our customers are disintermediated in their business, we could face diminished demand for our integrated products and services. in addition, existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers. regulation of internet and digital transactions - proposed legislation in various jurisdictions relating to internet gambling and other digital areas such as cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment transactions. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems. actions by regulators could influence other organizations around the world to enact or consider adopting similar measures, amplifying any potential compliance burden. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties. each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments as well as various non-u.s. jurisdictions. potential changes in existing tax laws may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments. for example, the recent u.s. tax legislation enacted on december 22, 2017 represents a significant overhaul of the u.s. federal tax code. this tax legislation reduced the u.s. statutory corporate tax rate and made other changes that could have a favorable impact on our overall u.s. federal tax liability in a given period. however, the tax legislation also included a number of provisions that limit or eliminate various deductions, including interest expense, performance-based compensation for certain executives and the domestic production activities deduction, among others, that could affect our u.s. federal income tax position. we are continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on our operations and u.s. federal income tax position. see note 17 (income taxes) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for further discussion of the tcja. while we expect the tcja to be favorable to the company overall, there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the u.s. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any changes in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of contents privacy, data protection and security regulation of privacy, data protection, security and the digital economy could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. we are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. as we continue to develop integrated products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data across multiple channels. this expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security often times require monitoring of and changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure, storage and/or security of personal and sensitive information. in addition, due to the european parliament's passage of the gdpr and the european court of justice's invalidation of the safe harbor treaty, we are subject to enhanced compliance and operational requirements in the european union. failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. new requirements or reinterpretations of existing requirements in these areas, or the development of new regulatory schemes related to the digital economy in general, may also increase our costs and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring, the development of information-based products and solutions and technology operations. in addition, these requirements may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our payment products that they issue. moreover, due to account data compromise events, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation and requirements. any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, fraudulent activity could encourage regulatory intervention, which could damage our reputation and reduce the use and acceptance of our integrated products and services or increase our compliance costs. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture consumer account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become common in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our payment products. while we are taking measures to make card and digital payments more secure, increased fraud levels involving our integrated products and services, or misconduct or negligence by third parties switching or otherwise servicing our integrated products and services, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation. litigation liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law and those involving intellectual property claims. see note 18 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could impact our relationships with our customers, including reducing the volume of business that we do with them, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 23 table of contents business and operations competition and technology substantial and intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; cryptocurrencies; ach payment services; and other payments networks, which can have several competitive impacts on our business: within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide. in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, visa has greater volume, scale and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate three-party payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and these competitors may derive competitive advantages from their business models. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. disintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. as the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could switch (and in some cases are switching) transactions directly with issuers. additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases switching the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. regulation in the eea may disintermediate us by enabling third-party processors opportunities to route payment transactions away from our networks and towards other forms of payment. although we partner with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that leverage our technology, platforms and networks to deliver their products, they could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete in the digital economy. this risk is heightened when we have relationships with these entities where we share mastercard data. while we share this data in a controlled manner subject to applicable anonymization and data privacy standards, without proper oversight we could inadvertently share too much data which could give the partner a competitive advantage. 24 table of contents competitors, customers, technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our switched transaction and payment offerings. these products could replace our own switching and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. in addition, governments that develop national payment platforms may promote their platforms in such a way that could put us at a competitive disadvantage in those markets. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our mastercard-branded cards and enabled products and services, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers if they require terms that we are unable or unwilling to offer, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. rapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our overall business and results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways: technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce, cryptocurrency and block chain technology, machine learning and ai, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of our products. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. the inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact our offerings. our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to emv, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes. our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. 25 table of contents our ability to develop new technologies and reflect technological changes in our payments offerings will require resources, which may result in additional expenses. we work with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers. our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. operating a new real-time account-based payments network in connection with our vocalink acquisition presents risks that could materially affect our business. our acquisition of vocalink in 2017 added real-time account-based payment technology to the suite of capabilities we offer. while expansion into this space presents business opportunities, there are also regulatory and operational risks associated with administering a new type of payments network and with integrating this acquisition into our business. operating a new type of payments system presents new regulatory and operational risks. english regulators have designated this platform to be critical national infrastructure and regulators in other countries may in the future expand their regulatory oversight of real-time account-based payments systems in similar ways. in addition, any prolonged service outage on this network could result in quickly escalating impacts, including potential intervention by the bank of england and significant reputational risk to vocalink and us. for a discussion of the regulatory risks related to our real-time account-based payments platform, see our risk factor in risk factors - regulation related to our participation in the payments industry in this part i, item 1a. furthermore, the complexity of this payment technology requires careful management to address security vulnerabilities that are different from those faced on our core network. while we are leveraging vocalink's talent and expertise, we may face challenges in adapting to the complex requirements of operating a new payments system. operational difficulties, such as the temporary unavailability of our services or products, or security breaches on our real-time account-based payments network could cause a loss of business for these products and services, result in potential liability for us and adversely affect our reputation. we are also working to embed the new products and technology acquired from vocalink into our existing markets. this product convergence requires tight working relationships and integration with the people and corporate culture of vocalink as a critical success factor. not managing the integration successfully could result in larger-than-expected integration costs, which could be significant. if we fail to successfully embed these new technologies, we may lose existing vocalink business and may not remain competitive in our payment technology offerings as compared to our competitors. see our risk factor in risk factors - acquisitions in this part i, item 1a for more information on risks relating to the integrating our acquisitions. working with new customers and end users as we expand our integrated products and services can present operational challenges, be costly and result in reputational damage if the new products or services do not perform as intended. the payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer and consumer needs. in order to remain competitive and meet the needs of the payments market, we are continually involved in diversifying our integrated products and services. these efforts carry the risks associated with any diversification initiative, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. these projects also carry risks associated with working with different types of customers, for example organizations such as corporations that are not financial institutions and non-governmental organizations ( ngos ), and end users than those we have traditionally worked with. these differences may present new operational challenges in the development and implementation of our new products or services. our failure to render these integrated products and services could make our other integrated products and services less desirable to customers, or put us at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, if there is a delay in the implementation of our products or services or if our products or services do not perform as anticipated, we could face additional regulatory scrutiny, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as negatively impact our brand and reputation. 26 table of contents information security and service disruptions information security incidents or account data compromise events could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as ours have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches and could lead to the misappropriation of consumer account and other information and identity theft. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as account holders, rely on our digital technologies, computer systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our integrated products and services, our customers and account holders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we, like other financial technology organizations, routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to attempted cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, future attacks or breaches could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our integrated products and services, which in turn could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such attacks or breaches could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. in addition, they could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. we maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage (each reviewed by our board of directors and its audit committee), and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. we also continually test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities. despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer material breaches and resulting losses in the future, or that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover all losses. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and account holders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition to information security risks for our systems, we also routinely encounter account data compromise events involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment transaction data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of account holders. these events, some of which have been high profile, typically involve external agents hacking the merchants' or third-party processors' systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems. further events of this type may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment products carrying our brands. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our integrated products and services. such events could also slow or reverse the trend 27 table of contents toward electronic payments. in addition to reputational concerns, while most of the lawsuits resulting from account data breaches do not involve direct claims against us and while we have releases from many issuers and acquirers, we could still face damage claims, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. such events could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed on us. service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our overall business and results of operations. our transaction switching systems and other offerings may experience interruptions as a result of technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks, because of the intrinsic importance of our switching systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially adversely affect our overall business and our results of operations. financial institution customers and other stakeholder relationships losing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest financial institution customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. most of our financial institution customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest financial institution customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our payment products, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. these developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 28 table of contents our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and, in many jurisdictions, their ability to effectively manage or help manage our brands. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their respective relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services. furthermore, we depend on our issuing partners and acquirers to continue to innovate to maintain competitiveness in the market. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to account holders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to account holders. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence, including economic conditions in global financial markets or their disintermediation by competitors or emerging technologies. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - settlement and third-party obligations in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic switching services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with account holders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. merchants' continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and increase our incentive program costs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are important constituents in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to continue to expand the acceptance of our integrated products and services. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope and influence. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations. see our risk factor in risk factors risks related to our participation in the payments industry in this part i, item 1a with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. certain larger merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our products. we also make payments to certain merchants to incentivize them to create co-branded payment programs with us. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer. our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. 29 table of contents our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. settlement and third-party obligations our role as guarantor exposes us to risk of loss or illiquidity. we are a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of: principal customers, which are customers that participate directly in our programs and are responsible for their own settlement and other activities as well as those of their sponsored affiliate customers affiliate debit licensees in this capacity, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity: we may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if our principal customer or affiliate debit licensee is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss. although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds. concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business and liquidity. even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. should an event occur that would trigger any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any customers or other companies, such an obligation could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we mitigate the contingent risk of a settlement failure using various strategies, including monitoring our customers' financial condition, their economic and political operating environments and their compliance with our participation standards. for more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices, see note 19 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. global economic and political environment global financial market activity could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse economic trends (including distress in financial markets, turmoil in specific economies around the world and additional government intervention) have impacted the environment in which we operate. the condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: our customers may: restrict credit lines to account holders or limit the issuance of new mastercard products to mitigate increasing account holder defaults implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability 30 table of contents default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers consumer spending can be negatively impacted by: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery, which can change cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment government intervention (including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments on or in our financial institution customers), as well as uncertainty due to changing political regimes in executive, legislative and/or judicial branches of government, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. a decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. we switch substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and fees related to switched transactions. revenue from switching cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with the levels and destinations of cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases. additionally, any regulation of interregional interchange fees could negatively impact our cross-border activity, which could decrease the revenue we receive. any such decline in cross-border activity could materially adversely affect our results of operations. negative trends in spending could negatively impact our results of operations. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our products. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2017 , approximately 65% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations including devaluation of currencies where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars, such as what we have experienced in venezuela. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. the united kingdom's proposed withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. (commonly referred to as brexit ). the u.k. government triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty on may 29, 2017, which commenced the official e.u. withdrawal process. uncertainty over the terms of the u.k.'s departure from the e.u. could cause political and economic uncertainty in the u.k. and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. 31 table of contents brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the u.k. and e.u. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the u.k., may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the e.u. in addition, because we conduct business in and have operations in the u.k., we may need to apply for regulatory authorization and permission in separate e.u. member states. we may also face additional complexity with regard to immigration and travel rights for our employees located in the u.k. and the e.u. these factors may impact our ability to operate in the e.u. and u.k. seamlessly. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. reputational impact negative brand perception may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract consumers to our branded products and retain them depends upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers, merchants or other organizations that impact the perception of our brands or the payments industry in general. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . additionally, large digital companies and other technology companies who are our customers use our networks to build their own acceptance brands, which could cause consumer confusion and decrease the value of our brand. moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands by disseminating rapidly and globally actual or perceived damaging information about us, our products or merchants or other end users who utilize our products. also, as we are headquartered in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. acquisitions acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to evaluate and/or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate them, despite original intentions and focused efforts. in addition, such an integration may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply. this compliance could increase our costs, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. class a common stock and governance structure provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions and have an impact on change-in-control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions, including provisions that could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors 32 table of contents our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of mastercard foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors mastercard foundation's substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders. as of february 9, 2018 , mastercard foundation owned 112,181,762 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.8% of our general voting power. mastercard foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to may 1, 2027, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. mastercard foundation is permitted to sell all of its remaining shares after may 1, 2027. the directors of mastercard foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by mastercard foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because mastercard foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $109 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2017 related to the hedging program. a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on our investments at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . in addition, there was no material equity price risk at december 31, 2017 or 2016 . foreign exchange risk our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. we enter into foreign currency contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currencies of the entity. we may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. the objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. foreign currency exposures are managed together through our foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in note 20 (foreign exchange risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii,risk factors 19 also see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. preferential or protective government actions. some governments have taken action to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, as well as to create their own national providers. for example, governments in some countries mandate switching of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. in china, we are currently excluded from domestic switching and are seeking market access, which is uncertain and subject to a number of factors, including receiving regulatory approval. we are in active discussions to explore different solutions. payment systems regulation . regulators in several countries around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, authority to regulate certain aspects of the payment systems in their countries. such authority has resulted in regulation of various aspects of our business. in the european union, legislation requires us to separate our scheme activities (brand, products, franchise and licensing) from our switched transactions and other processing in terms of how we go to market, make decisions and organize our structure. additionally, several jurisdictions have created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including the united kingdom's psr (vocalink and mastercard are both participants in the payments system and are therefore subject to the psr's duties and powers), india (which has also 16 table of contents designated us as a payments system subject to regulation), the national bank of belgium and regulators in brazil, hong kong, mexico and russia. anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing, economic sanctions and anti-corruption. we are subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) and counter terrorist financing ( ctf ) laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act, as well as the various economic sanctions programs, including those imposed and administered by the u.s. office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). we have implemented a comprehensive aml/ctf program, comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, which is designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity and to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. the economic sanctions programs administered by ofac restrict financial transactions and other dealings with certain countries and geographies (specifically crimea, cuba, iran, north korea and syria) and with persons and entities included in ofac sanctions lists including its list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). we take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with ofac and other applicable sanctions, including establishing a risk-based compliance program that has policies, procedures and controls designed to prevent us from having unlawful business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. as part of this program, we obligate issuers and acquirers to comply with their local sanctions obligations and the u.s. sanctions programs, including requiring the screening of account holders and merchants, respectively, against ofac sanctions lists (including the sdn list). iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states, and we have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in any of these countries or geographies and do not license entities domiciled there. we are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, which, among other things, generally prohibit giving or offering payments or anything of value for the purpose of improperly influencing a business decision or to gain an unfair business advantage. we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls to proactively manage corruption risk. financial sector oversight. we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers. in addition, we are or may be subject to regulation by a number of agencies charged with oversight of, among other things, consumer protection, financial and banking matters. the regulators have supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority that we may be subject to because of the services we provide to financial institutions that issue and acquire our products. issuer practice legislation and regulation. our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting us as a consequence. such regulations and investigations have been related to payment card add-on products, campus cards, bank overdraft practices, fees issuers charge to account holders and the transparency of terms and conditions. additionally, regulations such as psd2 in the eea require financial institutions to provide third-party payment-processors access to consumer payment accounts, enabling them to provide payment initiation and account information services directly to consumers. regulation of internet and digital transactions . various jurisdictions have enacted or have proposed regulation related to internet transactions. the legislation applies to payments system participants, including us and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. we may also be impacted by evolving laws surrounding gambling, including fantasy sports. certain jurisdictions are also considering regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas that could impact us, such as cyber-security and copyright and trademark infringement. privacy, data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to increasingly complex privacy and data protection laws in the united states, the european union and elsewhere around the world. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program. in the european union, we are subject to the gdpr, which requires a comprehensive privacy and data protection program to protect the personal and sensitive data of eea residents. a number of regulators and policymakers around the globe are using the gdpr as a reference to adopt new or updated privacy and data protection laws, including in the u.s. (california), argentina, brazil, chile, india, indonesia and kenya. some jurisdictions are currently considering adopting data localization requirements, which mandate the collection, processing, and/or storage of data within their borders, including india, kenya and vietnam. due to constant changes to the nature of data and the use of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, regulations in this area are constantly evolving with regulatory and legislative authorities in numerous parts of the world adopting proposals to protect information. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws are often uncertain and in a state of flux, thus requiring constant monitoring for compliance. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact us, including evolving laws surrounding marijuana, prepaid payroll cards, virtual currencies, identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. 17 table of contents seasonality we do not experience meaningful seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 14,800 persons, of whom approximately 8,800 were employed outside of the united states. additional information mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through our principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated, a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. for more information about our capital structure, including our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock), see note 15 (stockholders' equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. website and sec reports our internet address is www.mastercard.com. from time to time, we may use our corporate website as a channel of distribution of material company information. financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website. you can also visit investor alerts in the investor relations section to enroll your email address to automatically receive email alerts and other information about mastercard. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available for review, without charge, on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our corporate website is not incorporated by reference into this report. our filings are also available electronically from the sec at www.sec.gov. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory payments industry regulation global regulatory and legislative activity directly related to the payments industry may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. regulators increasingly seek to regulate certain aspects of payments systems such as ours, or establish or expand their authority to do so. many jurisdictions have enacted such regulations. these regulations have established, and could further expand, obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services that we may offer to financial institutions for consumers, the countries in which our integrated products and services may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products or services. new regulations and oversight could also relate to our clearing and settlement activities (including risk management policies and procedures, collateral requirements, participant default policies and procedures, the ability to complete timely switching of financial transactions, and capital and financial resource requirements). in addition, several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry and, in some cases, are considering designating certain payments networks as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. 19 table of contents these obligations, designations and restrictions may further expand and could conflict with each other as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems. some enacted regulations require financial institutions to provide third party payment processors access to consumer payment accounts. this may enable these third party payment processors to route transactions away from mastercard products by offering account information or payment initiation services directly to people who currently use our products. this may also allow these processors to commoditize the data that are included in the transactions. new authentication standards have been enacted requiring additional verification information from consumers to complete transactions. this may increase the number of transactions that consumers abandon if we are unable to ensure a frictionless authentication experience. an increase in the rate of abandoned transactions could adversely impact our volumes or other operational metrics. increased regulation and oversight of payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens or otherwise increase our costs. such laws or compliance burdens could result in issuers and acquirers being less willing to participate in our payments system, reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products (making our products less desirable to consumers), reduce the volume of domestic and cross-border transactions or other operational metrics, disintermediate us, impact our profitability and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products and services, all of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. regulators could also require us to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations, or could require customization with regard to such changes, which could impact market participant risk and therefore risk to us. such regulatory changes could lead to new or different criteria for participation in and access to our payments system by financial institutions or other customers. moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, civil damages or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our brand and reputation. increased regulatory, legislative and litigation activity with respect to interchange rates could have an adverse impact on our business. interchange rates are a significant component of the costs that merchants pay in connection with the acceptance of our products. although we do not earn revenues from interchange, interchange rates can impact the volume of transactions we see on our payment products. if interchange rates are too high, merchants may stop accepting our products or route debit transactions away from our network. if interchange rates are too low, issuers may stop promoting our integrated products and services, eliminate or reduce loyalty rewards programs or other account holder benefits (e.g., free checking or low interest rates on balances), or charge fees to account holders (e.g., annual fees or late payment fees). governments and merchant groups in a number of countries have implemented or are seeking interchange rate reductions through legislation, competition law, central bank regulation and litigation. see government regulation and note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details. if issuers cannot collect or we are forced to reduce interchange rates, issuers may be less willing to participate in our four-party payments system, or may reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products, reducing the attractiveness of our products to consumers. in particular, potential changes to interregional interchange fees as a result of the proposed resolution of the european commission's investigation could impact our cross-border transaction activity disproportionately versus competitors that are not subject to similar reductions. these and other impacts could lower transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could reduce the benefits associated with our products or choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. in addition, issuers could seek to decrease the expense of their payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them, particularly if regulation has a disproportionate impact on us as compared to our competitors in terms of the fees we can charge. this could make our products less desirable to consumers, reduce the volume of transactions and our profitability, and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products. we are devoting substantial resources to defending our right to establish interchange rates in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any of these activities could have a more positive or negative impact on us relative to our competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our ability to establish interchange rates, any resulting legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result (and in some cases has resulted) in us being fined and/or having to pay civil damages, the amount of which could be material. 20 table of contents current regulatory activity could be extended to additional jurisdictions or products, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. regulators around the world increasingly replicate other regulators' approaches with regard to the regulation of payments and other industries. consequently, regulation in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations within a country, state or region involving one product may lead to regulation of similar or related products. for example, regulations affecting debit transactions could lead to regulation of other products (such as credit). as a result, the risks to our business created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential it has to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involve other products within any particular jurisdiction. these include matters like interchange rates, potential direct regulation of our network fees and pricing, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business to meet the varying requirements. either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. limitations on our ability to restrict merchant surcharging could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using our products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so). additionally, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. it is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change. this could result in consumers viewing our products less favorably and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. preferential or protective government actions preferential and protective government actions related to domestic payment services could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries have acted, or in the future may act, to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and switching providers, or have created, or may in the future create, their own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies, and may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers. for example: governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate switching of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. some jurisdictions are considering requirements to collect, process and/or store data within their borders, as well as prohibitions on the transfer of data abroad, leading to technological and operational implications. geopolitical events and resulting ofac sanctions, adverse trade policies or other types of government actions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business. regional groups of countries are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the switching of regional transactions. such developments prevent us from utilizing our global switching capabilities for domestic or regional customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. privacy, data protection and security regulation of privacy, data protection, security and the digital economy could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. we are subject to increasingly complex regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. as we continue to develop integrated 21 table of contents products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, as well as acquire new companies, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data from additional sources and across multiple channels. this expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security often times require monitoring of and changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transfer and/or security of personal and sensitive information. we are also subject to enhanced compliance and operational requirements in the european union, and policymakers around the globe are using these requirements as a reference to adopt new or updated privacy laws that could result in similar or stricter requirements in other jurisdictions. some jurisdictions are also considering requirements to collect, process and/or store data within their borders, as well as prohibitions on the transfer of data abroad, leading to technological and operational implications. other jurisdictions are considering adopting sector-specific regulations for the payments industry, including forced data sharing requirements or additional verification requirements that overlap or conflict with, or diverge from, general privacy rules. failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. new requirements or reinterpretations of existing requirements in these areas, or the development of new regulatory schemes related to the digital economy in general, may also increase our costs and could impact the products and services we offer and other aspects of our business, such as fraud monitoring, the development of information-based products and solutions and technology operations. in addition, these requirements may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our payment products that they issue. moreover, due to account data compromise events and privacy abuses by other companies, as well as the disclosure of monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies in combination with the use of artificial intelligence and new technologies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation and requirements and/or future enforcement. those developments have also raised public attention on companies' data practices and have changed consumer and societal expectations for enhanced privacy and data protection. any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, fraudulent activity could encourage regulatory intervention, which could damage our reputation and reduce the use and acceptance of our integrated products and services or increase our compliance costs. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture consumer account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become common in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our payment products. while we are taking measures to make card and digital payments more secure, increased fraud levels involving our integrated products and services, or misconduct or negligence by third parties switching or otherwise servicing our integrated products and services, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation. other regulation regulations that directly or indirectly apply to mastercard as a result of our participation in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many jurisdictions in which our integrated products and services are used. many of our customers are also subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions that, at times, consequently affect us. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business - government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing, economic sanctions and anti-corruption - we are subject to aml and ctf laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act, as well as the various economic sanctions programs, including those imposed and administered by ofac. the economic sanctions programs administered by ofac restrict financial transactions and other dealings with certain countries and geographies (specifically crimea, cuba, iran, north korea and syria) and with persons and entities included in ofac sanctions lists including the sdn list. iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. we are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, which, among other things, generally prohibit giving or offering payments or anything of value for the purpose of improperly influencing a business decision or to gain an unfair business advantage. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement against us, or those with whom we may be associated, under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties, damages, and/or have a significant reputational impact. 22 table of contents account-based payment systems in the u.k., the treasury has expanded the bank of england's oversight of certain payment system providers that are systemically important to u.k.'s payment network. as a result of these changes, aspects of our vocalink business are now subject to the u.k. payment system oversight regime and are directly overseen by the bank of england. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations, which impact us as a consequence. in addition, certain regulations (such as psd2 in the eea) may disintermediate issuers. if our customers are disintermediated in their business, we could face diminished demand for our integrated products and services. in addition, existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers. regulation of internet and digital transactions - proposed legislation in various jurisdictions relating to internet gambling and other digital areas such as cyber-security and copyright and trademark infringement could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment transactions. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, or may otherwise impact the competitiveness of our products. actions by regulators could influence other organizations around the world to enact or consider adopting similar measures, amplifying any potential compliance burden. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties. each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments as well as various non-u.s. jurisdictions. potential changes in existing tax laws, including future regulatory guidance, may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments. there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the u.s. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any changes in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. litigation liabilities we may incur or limitations on our business related to any litigation or litigation settlements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law and those involving intellectual property claims. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could impact our relationships with our customers, including reducing the volume of business that we do with them, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 23 table of contents business and operations competition and technology substantial and intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; cryptocurrencies; ach payment services; and other payments networks, which can have several competitive impacts on our business: some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors operate three-party payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and these competitors may derive competitive advantages from their business models. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business-competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. disintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. as the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could switch (and in some cases are switching) transactions directly with issuers. additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases switching the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. regulation in the eea may disintermediate us by enabling third-party providers opportunities to route payment transactions away from our networks and towards other forms of payment. although we partner with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that leverage our technology, platforms and networks to deliver their products, they could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete in the digital economy. this risk is heightened when we have relationships with these entities where we share mastercard data. while we share this data in a controlled manner subject to applicable anonymization and privacy and data protection standards, without proper oversight we could inadvertently share too much data which could give the partner a competitive advantage. competitors, customers, technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our switched transaction and payment offerings. these products could replace our own switching and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. in addition, governments that develop national payment platforms may promote their platforms in such a way that could put us at a competitive disadvantage in those markets. 24 table of contents participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment products and services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our mastercard-branded cards and enabled products and services, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to switch additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers if they require terms that we are unable or unwilling to offer, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. rapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our overall business and results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways: technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce, cryptocurrency and block chain technology, machine learning and ai, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and products that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of our products. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. the inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact our offerings. our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to emv, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes. our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. our ability to develop new technologies and reflect technological changes in our payments offerings will require resources, which may result in additional expenses. 25 table of contents we work with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers. our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. operating a real-time account-based payment network presents risks that could materially affect our business. our acquisition of vocalink in 2017 added real-time account-based payment technology to the suite of capabilities we offer. while expansion into this space presents business opportunities, there are also regulatory and operational risks associated with administering a real-time account-based payment network. british regulators have designated this platform to be critical national infrastructure and regulators in other countries may in the future expand their regulatory oversight of real-time account-based payment systems in similar ways. in addition, any prolonged service outage on this network could result in quickly escalating impacts, including potential intervention by the bank of england and significant reputational risk to vocalink and us. for a discussion of the regulatory risks related to our real-time account-based payment platform, see our risk factor in risk factors - payments industry regulation in this part i, item 1a. furthermore, the complexity of this payment technology requires careful management to address security vulnerabilities that are different from those faced on our core network. operational difficulties, such as the temporary unavailability of our services or products, or security breaches on our real-time account-based payment network could cause a loss of business for these products and services, result in potential liability for us and adversely affect our reputation. working with new customers and end users as we expand our integrated products and services can present operational challenges, be costly and result in reputational damage if the new products or services do not perform as intended. the payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer and consumer needs. in order to remain competitive and meet the needs of the payments market, we are continually involved in diversifying our integrated products and services. these efforts carry the risks associated with any diversification initiative, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. these projects also carry risks associated with working with different types of customers, for example organizations such as corporations that are not financial institutions and non-governmental organizations ( ngos ), and end users than those we have traditionally worked with. these differences may present new operational challenges in the development and implementation of our new products or services. our failure to render these integrated products and services could make our other integrated products and services less desirable to customers, or put us at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, if there is a delay in the implementation of our products or services or if our products or services do not perform as anticipated, we could face additional regulatory scrutiny, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as negatively impact our brand and reputation. information security and service disruptions information security incidents or account data compromise events could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as ours have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches and could lead to the misappropriation of consumer account and other information and identity theft. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as account holders, rely on our digital technologies, computer systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our 26 table of contents integrated products and services, our customers and account holders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we, like other financial technology organizations, routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to attempted cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, future attacks or breaches could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our integrated products and services, which in turn could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such attacks or breaches could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added services), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. in addition, they could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. despite various mitigation efforts that we undertake, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer material breaches and resulting losses in the future, or that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover all losses. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and account holders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition to information security risks for our systems, we also routinely encounter account data compromise events involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment transaction data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of account holders. further events of this type may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment products carrying our brands. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our integrated products and services. such events could also slow or reverse the trend toward electronic payments. in addition to reputational concerns, the cumulative impact of multiple account data compromise events could increase the impact of the fraud resulting from such events by, among other things, making it more difficult to identify consumers. moreover, while most of the lawsuits resulting from account data breaches do not involve direct claims against us and while we have releases from many issuers and acquirers, we could still face damage claims, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. such events could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed on us. service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our overall business and results of operations. our transaction switching systems and other offerings may experience interruptions as a result of technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks, because of the intrinsic importance of our switching systems to our business, any interruption or 27 table of contents degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially adversely affect our overall business and our results of operations. financial institution customers and other stakeholder relationships losing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest financial institution customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. most of our financial institution customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest financial institution customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our payment products, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. these developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and, in many jurisdictions, their ability to effectively manage or help manage our brands. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their respective relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services. furthermore, we depend on our issuing partners and acquirers to continue to innovate to maintain competitiveness in the market. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to account holders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to account holders. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence, including economic conditions in global financial markets or their disintermediation by competitors or emerging technologies, as well as regulation. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - settlement and third-party obligations in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic switching services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with account holders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively 28 table of contents manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. merchants' continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and increase our incentive program costs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are important constituents in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to continue to expand the acceptance of our integrated products and services. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope and influence. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations. see our risk factor in risk factors risks related to our participation in the payments industry in this part i, item 1a with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. certain larger merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our products. we also make payments to certain merchants to incentivize them to create co-branded payment programs with us. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer. our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. settlement and third-party obligations our role as guarantor, as well as other contractual obligations, expose us to risk of loss or illiquidity. we are a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of certain of our customers. in this capacity, we are exposed to credit and liquidity risk from these customers and certain service providers. we may incur significant losses in connection with transaction settlements if a customer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we have significant contractual indemnification obligations with certain customers. should an event occur that triggers these obligations, such an event could materially and adversely affect our overall business and result of operations. 29 table of contents global economic and political environment global economic, political, financial and societal events or conditions could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse economic trends in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: customers mitigating their economic exposure by limiting the issuance of new mastercard products and requesting greater incentive or greater cost stability from us. consumers and businesses lowering spending, which could impact cross-border travel patterns (on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent). government intervention (including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments on or in our financial institution customers), as well as uncertainty due to changing political regimes in executive, legislative and/or judicial branches of government, that may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability that could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. additionally, we switch substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and fees related to switched transactions. revenue from switching cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with the levels and destinations of cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases, as well as major environmental events. the uncertainty that could result from such events could decrease cross-border activity. additionally, any regulation of interregional interchange fees could also negatively impact our cross-border activity. in each case, decreased cross-border activity could decrease the revenue we receive. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2018 , approximately 67% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations including devaluation of currencies where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars, such as what we have experienced in venezuela. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. the united kingdom's proposed withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. (commonly referred to as brexit ). the u.k. government triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty on march 29, 2017, which commenced the official e.u. withdrawal process. uncertainty over the terms of the u.k.'s departure from the e.u. could cause political and economic uncertainty in the u.k. and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the u.k. and e.u. we, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the u.k., may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the e.u. we may also face additional complexity with regard to immigration and travel rights for our employees located in the u.k. and the e.u. these factors may impact our ability to operate in the e.u. and u.k. seamlessly. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. 30 table of contents brand and reputational impact negative brand perception may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract consumers to our branded products and retain them depends upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers, merchants or other organizations that impact the perception of our brands or the payments industry in general. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands by disseminating rapidly and globally actual or perceived damaging information about us, our products or merchants or other end users who utilize our products. also, as we are headquartered in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. lack of visibility of our brand in our products and services, or in the products and services of our partners who use our technology, may materially and adversely affect our business. as more players enter the global payments system, the layers between our brand and consumers and merchants increase. in order to compete with other powerful consumer brands that are also becoming part of the consumer payment experience, we often partner with those brands on payment solutions. these brands include large digital companies and other technology companies who are our customers and use our networks to build their own acceptance brands. in some cases, our brand may not be featured in the payment solution or may be secondary to other brands. additionally, as part of our relationships with some issuers, our payment brand is only included on the back of the card. as a result, our brand may either be invisible to consumers or may not be the primary brand with which consumers associate the payment experience. this brand invisibility, or any consumer confusion as to our role in the consumer payment experience, could decrease the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our business. talent and culture we may not be able to attract, hire and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, or maintain our corporate culture, which could impact our ability to grow effectively. our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key personnel and senior management. we may be unable to retain or to attract highly qualified employees. the market for key personnel is highly competitive, particularly in technology and other skill areas significant to our business. additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations and related enforcement have made it difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or to maintain a corporate culture that fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork could harm our overall business and results of operations. we rely on key personnel to lead with integrity. to the extent our leaders behave in a manner that is not consistent with our values, we could experience significant impact to our brand and reputation, as well as to our corporate culture. acquisitions acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to evaluate and/or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate them, despite original intentions and focused efforts. in addition, such an integration may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. 31 table of contents any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply. this compliance could increase our costs, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. class a common stock and governance structure provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions and have an impact on change-in-control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions, including provisions that could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of mastercard foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors mastercard foundation's substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders. as of february 8, 2019 , mastercard foundation owned 112,181,762 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 11.1% of our general voting power. mastercard foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to may 1, 2027, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted. mastercard foundation is permitted to sell all of its remaining shares after may 1, 2027, subject to certain conditions. the directors of mastercard foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by mastercard foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because mastercard foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is limited. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. the effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $113 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018 related to the hedging program. in addition, a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on our investments at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . foreign exchange risk our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. we enter into foreign currency contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currencies of the entity. we may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. the objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. foreign currency exposures are managed together through our foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in note 22 (foreign exchange risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii,risk factors 31 risk factors risk factors risk highlights legal and regulatory business and operations payments industry regulation competition and technology preferential or protective government actions information security and service disruptions privacy, data and security stakeholder relationships other regulation settlement and third-party obligations 18 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory payments industry regulation global regulatory and legislative activity directly related to the payments industry may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. regulators increasingly seek to regulate certain aspects of payments systems such as ours, or establish or expand their authority to do so. many jurisdictions have enacted such regulations, establishing, and potentially further expanding, obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services that we may offer to financial institutions for consumers, the countries in which our integrated products and services may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products or services. new regulations and oversight could also relate to our clearing and settlement activities (including risk management policies and procedures, collateral requirements, participant default policies and procedures, the ability to complete timely switching of financial transactions, and capital and financial resource requirements). several jurisdictions have also inquired about the network fees we charge to our customers (typically as part of broader market reviews of retail payments). in addition, several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry and, in some cases, are considering designating certain payments networks as systemically important payment systems or critical infrastructure. these obligations, designations and restrictions may further expand and could conflict with each other as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems. moreover, as regulators around the world increasingly look to replicate similar regulation of payments and other industries, efforts in any one jurisdiction may influence approaches in other jurisdictions. similarly, new initiatives within a jurisdiction involving one product may lead to regulation of similar or related products (for example, debit regulations could lead to regulation of credit products). as a result, the risks to our business created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential it has to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involve other products within any particular jurisdiction. increased regulation and oversight of payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens or otherwise increase our costs. such laws or compliance burdens could result in issuers and acquirers being less willing to participate in our payments system, reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products (making our products less desirable to consumers), reduce the volume of domestic and cross-border transactions or other operational metrics, disintermediate us, impact our profitability and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products and services, all of which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, any regulation that is enacted related to the type and level of network fees we charge our customers could also materially and adversely impact our results of operations. regulators could also require us to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations, or could require customization with regard to such changes, which could impact market participant risk and therefore risk to us. such regulatory changes could lead to new or different criteria for participation in and access to our payments system by financial institutions or other customers. moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, civil damages or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our brand and reputation. increased regulatory, legislative and litigation activity with respect to interchange rates could have an adverse impact on our business. interchange rates are a significant component of the costs that merchants pay in connection with the acceptance of our products. although we do not earn revenues from interchange, interchange rates can impact the volume of transactions we see on our payment products. if interchange rates are too high, merchants may stop accepting our products or route transactions away from our network. if interchange rates are too low, issuers may stop promoting our integrated products and services, eliminate or reduce loyalty rewards programs or other account holder benefits (e.g., free checking or low interest rates on balances), or charge fees to account holders (e.g., annual fees or late payment fees). governments and merchant groups in a number of countries have implemented or are seeking interchange rate reductions through legislation, competition law, central bank regulation and litigation. see business - government regulation in part i, item 1 and note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details. if issuers cannot collect or we are forced to reduce interchange rates, issuers may be less willing to participate in our four-party payments system, or may reduce the benefits offered in connection with the use of our products, reducing the attractiveness of our products to consumers. in particular, changes to interregional interchange fees as a result of the resolution of the european commission's investigation could impact our cross-border transaction activity disproportionately versus competitors that are not subject to similar reductions. these and other impacts could lower transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could reduce the benefits associated with our products or choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. in addition, issuers could seek to decrease the expense of their payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them, particularly if regulation has a disproportionate impact mastercard 2019 form 10-k 19 part i item 1a. risk factors on us as compared to our competitors in terms of the fees we can charge. this could make our products less desirable to consumers, reduce the volume of transactions and our profitability, and limit our ability to innovate or offer differentiated products. we are devoting substantial resources to defending our right to establish interchange rates in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any of these activities could have a more positive or negative impact on us relative to our competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our ability to establish interchange rates, any resulting legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result (and in some cases has resulted) in us being fined and/or having to pay civil damages, the amount of which could be material. limitations on our ability to restrict merchant surcharging could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. we have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using our products instead of other means. authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so). additionally, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit u.s. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations. it is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change. this could result in consumers viewing our products less favorably and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. preferential or protective government actions preferential and protective government actions related to domestic payment services could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in some countries have acted, or in the future may act, to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and switching providers, or have created, or may in the future create, their own national provider. this action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies, and may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers. for example: governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate switching of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. some jurisdictions are considering requirements to collect, process and/or store data within their borders, as well as prohibitions on the transfer of data abroad, leading to technological and operational implications. geopolitical events and resulting ofac sanctions, adverse trade policies or other types of government actions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business. regional groups of countries are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the switching of regional transactions. such developments prevent us from utilizing our global switching capabilities for domestic or regional customers. our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. additionally, some jurisdictions have implemented, or may implement, foreign ownership restrictions, which could potentially have the effect of forcing or inducing the transfer of our technology and proprietary information as a condition of access to their markets. such restrictions could adversely impact our ability to compete in these markets. privacy, data and security regulation of privacy, data, security and the digital economy could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. we are subject to increasingly complex regulations related to privacy, data and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business. these regulations could result in negative impacts to our business. as we continue to develop integrated and personalized products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, as well as acquire new companies, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data from additional sources and across multiple channels. this expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business. regulation of privacy and data and information security often times require monitoring of and changes to our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transfer and/or security of personal and sensitive information. we are also subject to enhanced compliance and operational requirements in the european union, and policymakers around the globe are using these requirements as a reference to adopt new or updated privacy laws that could result in similar or stricter requirements in other jurisdictions. some jurisdictions are also considering requirements to collect, process and/or store data within 20 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors their borders, as well as prohibitions on the transfer of data abroad, leading to technological and operational implications. other jurisdictions are considering adopting sector-specific regulations for the payments industry, including forced data sharing requirements or additional verification requirements that overlap or conflict with, or diverge from, general privacy rules. failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. new requirements or interpretations of existing requirements in these areas, or the development of new regulatory schemes related to the digital economy in general, may also increase our costs and could impact the products and services we offer and other aspects of our business, such as fraud monitoring, the development of information-based products and solutions and technology operations. in addition, these requirements may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our payment products that they issue. moreover, due to account data compromise events and privacy abuses by other companies, as well as the disclosure of monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies in combination with the use of artificial intelligence and new technologies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation and requirements and/or future enforcement. those developments have also raised public attention on companies' data practices and have changed consumer and societal expectations for enhanced privacy and data protection. any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, fraudulent activity could encourage regulatory intervention, which could damage our reputation and reduce the use and acceptance of our integrated products and services or increase our compliance costs. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture consumer account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become common in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our payment products. while we are taking measures to make card and digital payments more secure, increased fraud levels involving our integrated products and services, or misconduct or negligence by third parties switching or otherwise servicing our integrated products and services, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation. other regulation regulations that directly or indirectly apply to mastercard as a result of our participation in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many jurisdictions in which our integrated products and services are used. many of our customers are also subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions that, at times, consequently affect us. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business - government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples include: anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing, economic sanctions and anti-corruption - we are subject to aml and cft laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act, as well as the various economic sanctions programs, including those imposed and administered by ofac. the economic sanctions programs administered by ofac restrict financial transactions and other dealings with certain countries and geographies (specifically crimea, cuba, iran, north korea and syria) and with persons and entities included in ofac sanctions lists including the sdn list. iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. we are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations globally, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, which, among other things, generally prohibit giving or offering payments or anything of value for the purpose of improperly influencing a business decision or to gain an unfair business advantage. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement against us, or those with whom we may be associated, under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties, damages, and/or have a significant reputational impact. account-based payment systems - in the u.k., her majesty's treasury has expanded the bank of england's oversight of certain payment system providers that are systemically important to u.k.'s payment network. as a result of these changes, aspects of our vocalink business are now subject to the u.k. payment system oversight regime and are directly overseen by the bank of england. issuer practice legislation and regulation - our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations, which impact us as a consequence. in addition, certain regulations (such as psd2 in the eea) may disintermediate issuers. psd2 may enable third-party payment processors to route transactions away from mastercard products by offering account information or payment initiation services directly to those who currently use our products. this may also allow these processors to commoditize the data that are included in the transactions. if our customers are disintermediated in their business, we could face diminished demand for our integrated products and services. other regulations, such as psd2's strong authentication requirement, could increase the number of transactions that consumers abandon if we are unable to secure a frictionless authentication experience under the new standards. an increase in the rate of abandoned transactions could adversely impact our volumes or other operational metrics. mastercard 2019 form 10-k 21 part i item 1a. risk factors increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, or may otherwise impact the competitiveness of our products. actions by regulators could influence other organizations around the world to enact or consider adopting similar measures, amplifying any potential compliance burden. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties. each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments as well as various non-u.s. jurisdictions. potential changes in existing tax laws, including future regulatory guidance, may impact our effective income tax rate and tax payments. there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the u.s. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective income tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any changes in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective income tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. litigation liabilities we may incur or limitations on our business related to any litigation or litigation settlements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law and those involving intellectual property claims. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. in the event we are found liable in any material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the united states. any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could impact our relationships with our customers, including reducing the volume of business that we do with them, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. business and operations competition and technology substantial and intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; cryptocurrencies; ach payment services; and other payments networks, which can have several competitive impacts on our business: some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity. certain of our competitors operate three-party payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and these competitors may derive competitive advantages from their business models. if we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than 22 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors. see business - competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. disintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. as the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could switch (and in some cases are switching) transactions directly with issuers. additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases switching the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us. regulation in the eea may disintermediate us by enabling third-party providers opportunities to route payment transactions away from our networks and towards other forms of payment. although we partner with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that leverage our technology, platforms and networks to deliver their products, they could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete in the digital economy. this risk is heightened when we have relationships with these entities where we share mastercard data. while we share this data in a controlled manner subject to applicable anonymization and privacy and data standards, without proper oversight we could inadvertently share too much data which could give the partner a competitive advantage. competitors, customers, technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our switched transaction and payment offerings. these products could replace our own switching and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. in addition, governments that develop national payment platforms may promote their platforms in such a way that could put us at a competitive disadvantage in those markets. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment products and services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our mastercard-branded cards and enabled products and services, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to switch additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers if they require terms that we are unable or unwilling to offer, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. these factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. mastercard 2019 form 10-k 23 part i item 1a. risk factors rapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our overall business and results of operations or limit our future growth. the payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways: technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce, cryptocurrency and block chain technology, machine learning and ai, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services. moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and products that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of our products. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. the inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact our offerings. our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to emv, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes. our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts. our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees. our ability to develop new technologies and reflect technological changes in our payments offerings will require resources, which may result in additional expenses. we work with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers. our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. operating a real-time account-based payment network presents risks that could materially affect our business. our acquisition of vocalink in 2017 added real-time account-based payment technology to the suite of capabilities we offer. while expansion into this space presents business opportunities, there are also regulatory and operational risks associated with administering a real-time account-based payment network. british regulators have designated this platform to be critical national infrastructure and regulators in other countries may in the future expand their regulatory oversight of real-time account-based payment systems in similar ways. in addition, any prolonged service outage on this network could result in quickly escalating impacts, including potential intervention by the bank of england and significant reputational risk to vocalink and us. for a discussion of the regulatory risks related to our real-time account-based payment platform, see our risk factor in risk factors - payments industry regulation in this part i, item 1a. furthermore, the complexity of this payment technology requires careful management to address security vulnerabilities that are different from those faced on our core network. operational difficulties, such as the temporary unavailability of our services or products, or security breaches on our real-time account-based payment network could cause a loss of business for these products and services, result in potential liability for us and adversely affect our reputation. working with new customers and end users as we expand our integrated products and services can present operational challenges, be costly and result in reputational damage if the new products or services do not perform as intended. the payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer and consumer needs. in order to remain competitive and meet the needs of the payments market, we are continually involved in diversifying our integrated products and services. these efforts carry the risks associated with any diversification initiative, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. these projects also carry risks associated with working with different types of customers, for example organizations such as corporations that are not financial 24 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors institutions and non-governmental organizations ( ngos ), and end users other than those we have traditionally worked with. these differences may present new operational challenges in the development and implementation of our new products or services. our failure to render these integrated products and services could make our other integrated products and services less desirable to customers, or put us at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, if there is a delay in the implementation of our products or services or if our products or services do not perform as anticipated, we could face additional regulatory scrutiny, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as negatively impact our brand and reputation. information security and service disruptions information security incidents or account data compromise events could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. information security risks for payments and technology companies such as ours have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. these threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. these threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches and could lead to the misappropriation of consumer account and other information and identity theft. our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information and technology in our computer systems and networks, as well as the systems of our third-party providers. our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as account holders, rely on our digital technologies, computer systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. in addition, to access our integrated products and services, our customers and account holders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet pcs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control. we, like other financial technology organizations, routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks, as well as the systems of our third-party providers, have been subject to attempted cyber-attacks. because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks. additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers. to date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, future attacks or breaches could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems (including third-party provider systems) or devices that our customers use to access our integrated products and services, which in turn could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises. such attacks or breaches could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added services), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties. in addition, they could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities. if such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. despite various mitigation efforts that we undertake, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer material breaches and resulting losses in the future, or that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover all losses. our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and account holders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities. as a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. in addition to information security risks for our systems, we also routinely encounter account data compromise events involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment transaction data, which affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover, american express and other types of account holders. further events of this type may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment products carrying our brands. damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our integrated products and services. such events could also slow or reverse the trend toward mastercard 2019 form 10-k 25 part i item 1a. risk factors electronic payments. in addition to reputational concerns, the cumulative impact of multiple account data compromise events could increase the impact of the fraud resulting from such events by, among other things, making it more difficult to identify consumers. moreover, while most of the lawsuits resulting from account data breaches do not involve direct claims against us and while we have releases from many issuers and acquirers, we could still face damage claims, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. such events could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed on us. service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our overall business and results of operations. our transaction switching systems and other offerings have experienced in limited instances and may continue to experience interruptions as a result of technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events. our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks, because of the intrinsic importance of our switching systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially adversely affect our overall business and our results of operations. stakeholder relationships losing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest financial institution customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. most of our financial institution customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest financial institution customers. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our payment products, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past. consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. if significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business. consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. these developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 26 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and, in many jurisdictions, their ability to effectively manage or help manage our brands. while we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their respective relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services. furthermore, we depend on our issuing partners and acquirers to continue to innovate to maintain competitiveness in the market. we do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to account holders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to account holders. each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence, including economic conditions in global financial markets or their disintermediation by competitors or emerging technologies, as well as regulation. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk. see our risk factor in risk factors - settlement and third-party obligations in this part i, item 1a with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors. because we do not provide domestic switching services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with account holders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. we also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. merchants' continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and increase our incentive program costs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. merchants are important constituents in our payments system. we rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to continue to expand the acceptance of our integrated products and services. we also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud. in the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope and influence. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard has been defending, including the u.s. merchant litigations. see our risk factor in risk factors other regulation in this part i, item 1a with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees. the continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. certain larger merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our products. we also make payments to certain merchants to incentivize them to create co-branded payment programs with us. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer. our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. as we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services. our work with governments subjects us to u.s. and international anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact. mastercard 2019 form 10-k 27 part i item 1a. risk factors working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government. any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation. settlement and third-party obligations our role as guarantor, as well as other contractual obligations, expose us to risk of loss or illiquidity. we are a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of certain of our customers. in this capacity, we are exposed to credit and liquidity risk from these customers and certain service providers. we may incur significant losses in connection with transaction settlements if a customer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we have significant contractual indemnification obligations with certain customers. should an event occur that triggers these obligations, such an event could materially and adversely affect our overall business and result of operations. global economic and political environment global economic, political, financial and societal events or conditions could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse economic trends in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance. such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following: customers mitigating their economic exposure by limiting the issuance of new mastercard products and requesting greater incentive or greater cost stability from us consumers and businesses lowering spending, which could impact domestic and cross-border spend government intervention (including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments on or in our financial institution customers), as well as uncertainty due to changing political regimes in executive, legislative and/or judicial branches of government, that may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products tightening of credit availability that could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility additionally, we switch substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and fees related to switched transactions. revenue from switching cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with the levels and destinations of cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases, as well as major environmental events (including those related to climate change). the uncertainty that could result from such events could decrease cross-border activity. additionally, any regulation of interregional interchange fees could also negatively impact our cross-border activity. in each case, decreased cross-border activity could decrease the revenue we receive. our operations as a global payments network rely in part on global interoperable standards to help facilitate safe and simple payments. to the extent geopolitical events result in jurisdictions no longer participating in the creation or adoption of these standards, or the creation of competing standards, the products and services we offer could be negatively impacted. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. during 2019 , approximately 68% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. this revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. in addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations including devaluation of currencies where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar strengthens compared 28 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars, such as what we have experienced in venezuela. the occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. the united kingdom's proposed withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. (commonly referred to as brexit ). the u.k. government triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty on march 29, 2017, which commenced the official e.u. withdrawal process. in january 2020, parliament and the e.u. approved of an agreement between the u.k. and the e.u., and the u.k. officially departed from the e.u. on february 1, 2020, the u.k. entered into a transition/implementation period, during which all e.u. laws regulations, court decisions, trading agreements and other obligations continue to apply to the u.k. during this period, which is set to expire on december 31, 2020, the u.k. and e.u. will negotiate additional terms. uncertainty over these terms could cause political and economic uncertainty in the u.k. and the rest of europe, which could harm our business and financial results. subsequent to the end of the transition/implementation period on december 31, 2020, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the u.k. and e.u. we, as well as our customers who have significant operations in the u.k., may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the e.u. we may also face additional complexity with regard to immigration and travel rights for our employees located in the u.k. and the e.u. these factors may impact our ability to operate in the e.u. and u.k. seamlessly. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results. brand and reputational impact negative brand perception may materially and adversely affect our overall business. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract consumers to our branded products and retain them depends upon the external perception of us and our industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers, merchants or other organizations that impact the perception of our brands or the payments industry in general. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory . moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers or other companies and organizations with which we work may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. we have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace. under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands by disseminating rapidly and globally actual or perceived damaging information about us, our products or merchants or other end users who utilize our products. to the extent any of our published sustainability metrics are subsequently viewed as inaccurate or we are unable to execute on our sustainability initiatives, we may be viewed negatively by consumers, investors and other stakeholders concerned about these matters. also, as we are headquartered in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business. any of the above issues could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business. lack of visibility of our brand in our products and services, or in the products and services of our partners who use our technology, may materially and adversely affect our business. as more players enter the global payments system, the layers between our brand and consumers and merchants increase. in order to compete with other powerful consumer brands that are also becoming part of the consumer payment experience, we often partner with those brands on payment solutions. these brands include large digital companies and other technology companies who are our customers and use our networks to build their own acceptance brands. in some cases, our brand may not be featured in the payment solution or may be secondary to other brands. additionally, as part of our relationships with some issuers, our payment brand is only included on the back of the card. as a result, our brand may either be invisible to consumers or may not be the primary brand with which consumers associate the payment experience. this brand invisibility, or any consumer confusion as to our role in the consumer payment experience, could decrease the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our business. mastercard 2019 form 10-k 29 part i item 1a. risk factors talent and culture we may not be able to attract, hire and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, or maintain our corporate culture, which could impact our ability to grow effectively. our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key personnel and senior management. we may be unable to retain or to attract highly qualified employees. the market for key personnel is highly competitive, particularly in technology and other skill areas significant to our business. additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations and related enforcement have made it difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or to maintain a corporate culture that fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork could harm our overall business and results of operations. we rely on key personnel to lead with integrity. to the extent our leaders behave in a manner that is not consistent with our values, we could experience significant impact to our brand and reputation, as well as to our corporate culture. acquisitions acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. although we may continue to evaluate and/or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate them, despite original intentions and focused efforts. in addition, such an integration may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply. this compliance could increase our costs, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements. our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage. class a common stock and governance structure provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions and have an impact on change-in-control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions, including provisions that could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. in addition: our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of mastercard foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors 30 mastercard 2019 form 10-k part i item 1a. risk factors mastercard foundation's substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders. as of february 11, 2020 , mastercard foundation owned 111,101,204 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 11.2% of our general voting power. mastercard foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to may 1, 2027, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted and have occurred. mastercard foundation is permitted to sell all of its remaining shares after may 1, 2027, subject to certain conditions. the directors of mastercard foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers. the ownership of class a common stock by mastercard foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because mastercard foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in factors such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is limited. management monitors risk exposures on an ongoing basis and establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. mastercard 2019 form 10-k 53 part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency and interest rate exposures are managed through our risk management activities, which are discussed further in note 23 (derivative and hedging instruments) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii,risk factors 24 risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant bank (the acquirer) to the cardholder bank (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated with our payment system cards. interchange fees, including mastercard default interchange fees (mifs), are subject to increasingly intense regulatory scrutiny worldwide as they have increased in recent years and as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. regulators are seeking to reduce these costs through regulatory action. for example: in the european union, the european commission has issued a statement of objections challenging mastercard cross-border mif under european union competition rules and has recently stated that it intends to issue a supplemental statement of objections in the near future. if we do not obtain a favorable ruling, the european commission could order us to change the manner in which mastercard calculates its cross-border mif. in the united kingdom the office of fair trading (oft) issued a decision on september 6, 2005 concluding that mastercard u.k. mifs contravene u.k. and european union competition laws. if this decision is upheld on appeal, it could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard 24 table of contents u.k. members and on mastercard competitive position and overall business in the u.k. in addition, the oft has stated that it will commence a new investigation of mastercard current u.k. mifs and, if it determines that they contravene u.k. and european union competition law, it will issue a new decision and possibly levy fines accruing from the date of its first decision. this new investigation will examine whether the new methodology for setting u.k. mifs adopted by mastercard in november 2004 in connection with which mastercard withdrew the authority of the u.k. members to set domestic mifs and related fees and conferred such authority exclusively on mastercard president and chief executive officer contravenes applicable law. in australia, the reserve bank of australia has enacted regulations controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours, that do not regulate the merchant discount charged by proprietary end-to-end networks (such as those offered by american express or discover), which have already benefited from these regulations. interchange fees are also being reviewed in a number of other jurisdictions, including colombia, mexico, new zealand, poland, portugal, norway, sweden, brazil, hungary and spain. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a coordinated approach to interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators approach to interchange in other jurisdictions. in the united states, interchange fees have also been the topic of increased congressional and regulatory interest. in particular, the u.s. house of representatives has passed a bill that would commission a study by the federal trade commission of the role of interchange in alleged price gouging at gas stations. in february 2006, the energy and commerce committee of the u.s. house of representatives held a hearing on interchange fees. also, the general topic of interchange fees has been raised in hearings and other forums, including conferences held by various federal reserve banks. individual state legislatures in the united states are also reviewing interchange fees. for instance, legislators in washington state and kentucky have proposed bills that would limit or cap interchange fees. finally, the merchants payment coalition, a coalition of trade associations representing businesses that accept credit and debit cards, is mounting a challenge to interchange fees in the united states by seeking legislative and regulatory intervention. in addition, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed over forty class-action suits alleging that our interchange fees violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that mastercard purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard, visa and their member banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages in an unspecified amount, attorney fees and injunctive relief. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of mifs and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. if issuers cannot collect or are forced to reduce interchange fees, they may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in a four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. if we are less successful than visa in defending interchange fees, we could also be competitively disadvantaged against visa. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, such regulation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth, and our overall business. if we are found liable in any of the cases brought by american express or discover, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. in 1998, the u.s. department of justice filed suit against mastercard international, visa u.s.a., inc. and visa international corp. in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york alleging that certain 25 table of contents aspects of the governance of mastercard and visa were unlawful, and that mastercard competitive programs policy (cpp) and a similar visa bylaw provision that prohibited financial institutions participating in the respective systems from issuing competing proprietary payment cards (such as american express or discover) acted to restrain competition. although we were successful in defending the relevant aspects of our governance structure at trial, the second circuit court of appeals affirmed the trial court judge ruling that our cpp and visa bylaw constituted unlawful restraints of trade under the u.s. federal antitrust laws. based on the final judgment in this matter, our cpp became unenforceable in october 2004 and was subsequently repealed. thereafter, discover and american express each filed suit against us, visa u.s.a. inc. and visa international services association alleging that the cpp and visa bylaw provision caused each injury by unlawfully restraining trade under the u.s. federal antitrust laws. discover also alleges that it suffered injury by reason of our rules, which required merchants in the united states to accept our debit cards if they accepted other mastercard-branded cards, before these rules were modified as part of the u.s. merchant lawsuit described below. the american express complaint names a number of member banks as co-defendants. in connection with their respective claims, american express and discover each requested that the district court give collateral estoppel effect to its findings in its judgment in the department of justice litigation. although the district court has denied that request at this stage in the litigation, the court indicated that american express and discover may refile a motion for collateral estoppel after further proceedings. if the court were to give effect to collateral estoppel on one or more issues in the future, then significant elements of plaintiffs claims would be established, thereby making it more likely that we would be found liable and making the possibility of an award of damages that much more likely. in the event all issues are subsequently decided against mastercard in dispositive motions during the course of the litigation then there is the possibility that the sole issue remaining will be whether a damage award is appropriate and, if so, what the amount of damages should be. neither american express nor discover has specified the amount of damages sought and, due to the considerable uncertainty associated with these proceedings, it is currently not reasonably possible to estimate the amount or range of any potential liability. each of american express and discover has conveyed their belief that these damages are substantial. moreover, because these actions have been brought under the u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and we may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which could significantly magnify the adverse effect upon us of any adverse judgment. if we are unsuccessful in defending against either or both of these lawsuits, the ultimate liability for mastercard could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the quarterly and annual period when such losses are recognized, could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial position, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. similarly, if we decide to settle either or both lawsuits or if we establish provisions in connection with them (which will depend on our continuing reconsideration of the progress of the litigation), such a settlement or the establishment of such provisions could also have such a material adverse effect. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for members. however, we are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in particular, a trial judge in california found that our currency conversion practice is deceptive under california state law, and ordered us to mandate that members disclose the currency conversion process to cardholders in cardholder agreements, applications, solicitations and monthly billing statements. the judge also ordered unspecified restitution to california cardholders. the final judgment and restitution process have been stayed pending mastercard appeal. in addition, we have been served with similar complaints in several state courts seeking to, in effect, extend the judge decision to our cardholders outside of california. we have succeeded in having several of these cases dismissed or transferred to 26 table of contents the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york and combined with putative federal class actions. the class actions allege that our currency conversion practices violate federal antitrust laws. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. if we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. based upon litigation developments, certain of which were favorable to mastercard, and progress in ongoing settlement discussions in these currency conversion cases and pursuant to statement of financial accounting standards no. 5, accounting for contingencies, mastercard recorded an additional $75 million of legal reserves in 2005. as a result of this additional reserve, we have now established total legal reserves of $89 million in connection with these currency conversion cases. based on future developments, this estimate may be revised. the amount of damages sought has not been specified in any of these cases. if we are found liable in any of the other litigations that have been brought against us or in any other litigation to which we may be subject in the future, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. there are currently actions against mastercard international in a number of state courts and the district of columbia. in a number of these state courts, there are multiple complaints against mastercard international brought under state unfair competition statutes on behalf of putative classes of consumers. the claims in these actions mirror the allegations made in the u.s. merchant lawsuit, which was brought on behalf of a class of u.s. merchants against mastercard international and visa and alleged, among other things, that our honor all cards rule (and a similar visa rule), which required merchants who accept mastercard cards to accept for payment every validly presented mastercard card, constituted an illegal tying arrangement in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the plaintiffs also asserted that we and visa conspired to monopolize what they characterized as the point-of-sale debit card market. in june 2003, mastercard international entered into a settlement agreement that resolved the u.s. merchant lawsuit and contract disputes with certain customers. the settlement agreement required, among other things, that we pay $125 million in 2003 and $100 million annually each december from 2004 through 2012. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements herein for a description of the settlement agreement. the putative consumer class actions are not covered by the terms of the june 2003 settlement agreement. these actions assert that merchants, faced with excessive merchant discount fees, have passed these overcharges to consumers in the form of higher prices on goods and services sold. in addition to these litigations, we are also being sued in several other state and federal courts under both federal antitrust laws and state common and statutory law in connection with certain of our rules, including those related to chargeback transactions. chargebacks refer to the situation where a transaction is returned, or charged back, to an acquirer by an issuer at the request of the cardholder or for some other reason. the claims directed at our chargeback rules allege that mastercard chargeback policies and related rules violate section 1 and section 2 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade, and monopolization or attempted monopolization, respectively. the claims allege that such rules constitute unlawful agreements and/or monopolization in restraint of trade. in addition, the complaints contain claims under state common law, including breach of contract, tortious interference with contract and breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. none of the putative consumer class actions specifies the amount of damages sought and, except for one lawsuit in which the plaintiff seeks $60 million in compensatory damages as well as $180 million in punitive damages, none of the lawsuits relating to chargeback transactions specifies the amount of damages sought. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. we may also be sued in the future in the united states or in other jurisdictions by our customers, merchants or consumers for substantial damages or injunctive relief in connection with our business practices. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against the consumer class actions, the merchant chargeback litigations, or any other litigation, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices and pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. 27 table of contents if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. except with respect to currency conversion litigations, we have not established reserves for any of the legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. a plaintiff in one of our antitrust litigations has asserted in a written communication that the damages it believes it is likely to recover in its lawsuit will exceed our capital and ability to pay and that the damages in such lawsuit and in our other pending litigations are likely to be in the billions of dollars before trebling. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. as a result of antitrust litigation that was brought against us by the u.s. department of justice, until october 15, 2006, we are required to permit issuers with which we have entered into business agreements in the united states before october 15, 2004 to terminate those agreements without penalty in order to enter into agreements with american express or discover. in addition, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. these limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the payments industry is generally the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and lead to decreased transaction volumes through our systems. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, our customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulation applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in recent years. for example, in 2002 mastercard became subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352(a) of the usa patriot act, which has required our customers and us to create and implement comprehensive anti-money laundering programs. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. we are also subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control (ofac). while mastercard has no business operations, subsidiaries or affiliated entities in syria, iran, sudan, north korea, cuba or libya, a limited number of financial institutions are licensed by mastercard to issue cards or acquire merchant transactions in certain of these countries, which have each been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states and are subject to ofac restrictions. our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our 28 table of contents stock. further, certain u.s. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments. in addition, in 2005 and 2004, a number of regulations were issued implementing the fair and accurate credit transactions act which, among other things, makes permanent the preemptive effect of several key provisions of the fair credit reporting act that could have a material impact on our customers businesses. additional implementing regulations are anticipated later this year. one such regulation pertaining to risk-based pricing could have a significant impact on the application process for credit cards, resulting in increased costs of issuance and/or a decrease in the flexibility of card issuers to set the price of credit. regulators and the u.s. congress have also increased their scrutiny of our customers pricing of credit and their underwriting standards. any legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to price credit freely could result in reduced amounts of credit available to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our transaction volume and revenues. the u.s. congress is also presently considering regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet gambling, internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement and interchange fees, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. most u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. various regulatory agencies are also considering regulations covering identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact our customers directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our customers underwriting standards. the implementation of recently enacted bankruptcy reform legislation in the united states may also directly affect our customers business models for their payment cards business. the u.s. congress has also examined the practices of credit card issuers in general, which could lead to significant legislative restrictions. these new requirements and developments may affect our customers ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer existing programs such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause them to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which would reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to the federal trade commission and the banking regulators information safeguard rules under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the rules require that each financial institution (including us) develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in 2005, there has been a heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. in the united states, there are a number of bills pending in congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address these 29 table of contents issues. congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in 2006 which, if implemented, could affect us and our customers. in addition, a number of states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. in europe, the european parliament and council have passed the european directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. the directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. regulation of privacy and data use and security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business. business risks we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we experienced continued pricing reductions. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy, to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. our strategy is to grow our business by, among other things, focusing on our key customers and entering into customized business agreements with key customers around the globe. we may in the future not be able to enter into such agreements on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger or have greater financial resources than we do. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may create pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone rapid consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. consolidation represents a competitive threat to us because our strategy contemplates 30 table of contents entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in the loss of business for mastercard. for example, in 2006 bank of america acquired mbna corporation, an issuer with a larger proportion of its card portfolio devoted to mastercard than bank of america. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. the continued consolidation in the banking industry also produces a smaller number of large customers, which generally have a greater ability to negotiate pricing discounts with mastercard. in addition, consolidations could prompt our customers to renegotiate our business agreements to obtain more favorable terms. this pressure on the prices we charge our customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, changing regulatory environments in certain regions may lead us to change our pricing arrangements and could reduce our overall revenues. our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. until october 15, 2006, we are required to permit issuers with which we have entered into business agreements in the united states before october 15, 2004 to terminate those agreements without penalty in order to enter into agreements with american express or discover as a result of the antitrust litigation that was brought against us by the u.s. department of justice. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2005, the net fees from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $975 million, or 33%, of total revenue. one of our large customers, jpmorgan chase bank and its affiliates, generated 11% of our consolidated revenue in 2005. jpmorgan chase bank also acts as our u.s. settlement bank and has a significant commitment under our revolving credit facility. loss of business from jpmorgan chase bank or any of our other large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. for instance, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements herein. in addition, some large merchants are supporting many of the legal and regulatory threats to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting cash-based forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. large merchants are also able to 31 table of contents negotiate pricing discounts and other incentives from us and our customers in order to accept our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments and other electronic forms of payment, including card-based payment systems. see business competition in part i, item 1 of this report. some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. we may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats. in addition, our competitors may be more efficient in introducing innovative programs and services than we are. as a result, our revenue or profitability may decline. we have repealed our competitive programs policy as a result of a final judgment in our litigation with the u.s. department of justice, and our business may suffer as a result. based on a final judgment of our litigation with the u.s. department of justice, in october 2004 our cpp, which prohibited financial institutions participating in our system from issuing competing proprietary payment cards, became unenforceable and was subsequently repealed. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein. as a result, our issuers are now permitted to issue general purpose credit or debit cards in the united states on any other general purpose card network (such as american express or discover). this may cause our members to issue fewer cards with our brand and to enter into arrangements with our competitors to issue cards, thereby reducing the volume of transactions that we process, decreasing our revenues. a number of our large customers, including bank of america, citibank, hsbc, usaa and ge finance, have begun to issue or have announced that they will issue american express or discover-branded cards. accordingly, the repeal of the cpp may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenue and profitability. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not solicit merchants to process transactions or establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which are responsibilities of our acquirers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuer and acquirer customers. in turn, our customers success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, together with the perception of our payment system, among 32 table of contents regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. in recent years, we believe that industry-wide offline and online debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, we believe that transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all offline, signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low market penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our market penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong market positions. we may also be impacted adversely by any tendency among u.s. consumers or financial institutions to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based transactions, because the latter types of transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks. in addition, we generally earn higher revenues on point-of-sale purchase transactions than on cash access transactions, and on domestic credit and offline debit transactions than on comparable online debit transactions. furthermore, in june 2003, following the settlement of the u.s. merchant lawsuit, visa enacted a bylaw requiring its 100 largest issuers of debit cards in the united states to pay a so-called settlement service fee if these issuers reduce their debit visa volume by more than 10%. this bylaw was later modified to clarify that the settlement service fee would only be imposed if an issuer shifted its portfolio of debit cards to mastercard. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements herein for a description of our response to this bylaw provision. if visa is permitted to impose this settlement service fee on issuers of debit cards according to this bylaw, it would penalize visa members seeking to do debit business with mastercard and would effectively prohibit them from converting their debit card programs to our programs. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. the changes to our governance structure in connection with the ownership and governance transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business relationship with our members. a number of our key customers are currently represented on our board of directors. upon the consummation of the ownership and governance transactions, the organization and composition of our board of directors will be substantially restructured. in particular, our certificate of incorporation will be amended to provide that, with the exception of the directors to be elected by the holders of our class m common stock, any person who is or has been during the prior three years a director, officer, employee, agent or representative of, or otherwise has any business relationship that is material to such person with, a member or former member of mastercard international, or of an operator, member, or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of such person, may not serve as a director of mastercard. in addition, our members will be able to own only class b common stock, which has no voting power, and class m common stock, which is generally 33 table of contents non-voting except that it provides the right to elect up to three directors (but not more than one-quarter of all directors) and approve specified significant corporate actions. if certain of our members are dissatisfied with these changes to our corporate governance structure, this could have a material adverse effect on our business relationship with them and they may elect to instead do business with a competitor with a different governance structure. in addition, our members ownership in our company will be reduced substantially in connection with the initial public offering and related transactions. the reduced ownership may reduce their interest in the continued success of our business. a significant loss of revenue or transaction volumes from our members could have a material adverse effect on our business. global economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending and in cross-border travel, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the united states or europe, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate, may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. in addition, a significant portion of the volume generated on cards carrying our brands (and a significant portion of the revenue we earn outside the united states) are associated with cross-border business and leisure travel, which may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions, including the threat of terrorism and outbreak of diseases such as sars and avian flu. in particular, revenue from processing foreign currency transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our members default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfall, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal member or affiliate debit licensee is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other members, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not contractually obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, in order to maintain the integrity and acceptance of our brands. our estimated gross legal settlement exposure, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $15.6 billion as of december 31, 2005. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.25 billion to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our members. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of our largest customers on their peak day, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. for more information on our settlement exposure as of december 31, 2005, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements herein. following the ownership and governance transactions, we will no longer have the right to impose special assessments upon the members of mastercard international, which could leave us exposed to significant losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in connection with the ownership and governance transactions, the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of mastercard international will be amended to eliminate the right of mastercard international to impose special assessments upon its members. this special assessment right currently allows mastercard international to 34 table of contents recover from its members all or a portion of its expenses and liabilities arising out of extraordinary events, such as settlements or judgments in major litigations and catastrophic occurrences that may cause significant risk or damage to mastercard. therefore, following the ownership and governance transactions, we will bear the expenses and liabilities associated with extraordinary events without recourse to our members through a right of assessment. accordingly, the loss of this special assessment right leaves us exposed to significant risks and losses from these types of extraordinary events, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. standard and poor rating services has announced that they will downgrade our credit rating upon completion of our initial public offering, which will result in an increase of our interest expense for borrowings under our credit facility. further downgradings of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our future ability to obtain funding or materially increase the cost of any additional funding. due to the loss of mastercard international right to impose special assessments upon its members in connection with this offering, standard &amp; poor rating services expects to lower our counterparty credit ratings from a-/a-2 with negative outlook to bbb+/a-2 with stable outlook and our subordinated debt rating from bbb+ with negative outlook to bbb with stable outlook. until the completion of the ownership and governance transactions, our existing ratings will remain on credit watch with negative outlook. the expected downgrading will result in an increase of our interest expense if borrowings were necessary under our credit facility. in addition, further downgrading of our credit ratings by standard &amp; poor rating services or by any other rating agency could materially and adversely affect our future ability to obtain funding or materially increase the cost of any additional funding. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems may experience service interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. most of our transaction processing systems are controlled by a single facility, supported by a separate smaller co-processing facility. a natural disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, such as at&amp;t, for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. if a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. for example, in 2005, a third-party processor that held account information for merchants and acquirers, was subject to a security breach in connection with card and account information for approximately 40 million cards, approximately 10.1 million of which were mastercard cards. as a result, we have been named in a lawsuit claiming unspecified damages and may be subject to additional lawsuits in connection with data security breaches involving payment cards carrying our brands. if we are unsuccessful in defending lawsuits involving such data security breaches, we may be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. 35 table of contents an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. if fraud levels involving our cards were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which would reduce our revenue and income. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards or by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations. during 2005 and 2004, approximately 45% and 42% of our revenue, respectively, was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. competing dynamic currency conversion services could reduce the volume of foreign currency transactions we process or force us to change our pricing or practices, which may materially and adversely affect our business. some of our members and competitors provide currency conversion services at the point of sale, known as dynamic currency conversion. dynamic currency conversion services could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own currency conversion processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. if we process fewer transactions or are forced to change our pricing or practices for our currency conversion processing because of competing dynamic currency conversion services or otherwise, our revenue may be materially and adversely affected. 36 table of contents our assessment revenues that are based on quarterly gdv are recorded utilizing an estimate of our customers performance. material changes in our customers performance compared to estimates could require us to restate our financial statements for prior periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stock price. our assessment revenues that are based on quarterly gdv are recorded utilizing an estimate of our customers performance. such estimates are subsequently validated against actual performance as reported by our customers, and differences are ordinarily adjusted in the period in which the customer reports actual results. rebates and incentives, which are recorded as contra-revenue, are also estimated based on customer performance. material changes in our customers performance compared to estimates, or revisions to performance information subsequently reported by our customers in accordance with the mastercard rules, could require us to restate our financial statements for prior periods. any such restatements could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and on the price of our class a common stock. any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may evaluate or make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. if so, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any such businesses, products or technologies. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. we expect to record a significant net loss for the second quarter and full year of 2006 as a result of the donation of shares of our class a common stock and cash to the mastercard foundation, and we may make additional cash donations to the mastercard foundation to allow it to meet its annual charitable disbursement requirements during the first four years of its operations. at the time of the ownership and governance transactions, we intend to donate 13,500,047 newly-issued shares of the new class a common stock, representing approximately 10% of our equity, to the mastercard foundation, a private charitable foundation incorporated in canada. we also expect to donate an estimated $40 million in cash to the foundation in support of its operating expenses and charitable giving for the first four years of its operations, and we may make additional cash contributions to the foundation during and after this period. because the foundation operations are currently being established, the overall size and timing of our expected initial cash donation have not been finally determined. in connection with the donation of the shares of the class a common stock, we expect to record an expense that is equal to the value of the shares we are donating. the value of the shares of class a common stock we donate will be determined based on the initial public offering price per share of class a common stock in the initial public offering less a marketability discount. this marketability discount and the methodology used to quantify it will be determined by management in consultation with independent valuation consultants retained by mastercard. as a result of this expected expense, we anticipate recording a significant net loss in the quarter the stock is donated and may record a net loss for the 2006 fiscal year. we also expect to record an expense equal to the value of any cash we donate in the period or periods in which such donation or donations are made. the expense of these donations will not be deductible to mastercard for tax purposes. as a result of this difference between financial statement and tax treatments of the donations, we expect there to be a significant increase to our effective tax rate in the periods in which the contributions are made. 37 table of contents changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our benefit plans. we provide certain retirement benefits to our u.s. employees through the mastercard accumulation plan (map), a qualified cash balance benefit plan. in 2003, a u.s. federal district court ruled that international business machines corporation cash balance pension plan violated the age discrimination provisions of erisa. if this decision is upheld on appeal and applied to cash balance plans generally, we may be required to amend the map and, like other u.s. companies with cash balance plans, may be exposed to claims from plan participants. these developments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by the board of directors, governing our funding, investments, and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there have been no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2005 as compared to december 31, 2004. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements denominated in foreign currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, forward currency contracts against the u.s. dollar were both purchased (with notional amounts of $78 million and $41 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $33 million and $20 million, respectively). based on the year-end 2005 and 2004 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create a loss valued at $4 million and $2 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, forward currency contracts against the euro were purchased (with notional amounts of $218 million and $128 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $39 million and no open contracts, respectively). based on the year-end 2005 and 2004 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the euro is estimated to create a loss valued at $16 million and $11 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the extent that the timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions is typically one business day and by limiting the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of nineteen other stable transaction currencies. the remaining 146 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. they are rated aa or above and primarily consist of fixed rate short and medium-term instruments. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity 60 table of contents and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. based on the net present value of expected future cash flows, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in fair value changes and an unrealized loss recorded in other comprehensive income of $19 million and $17 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. our held-to-maturity investments are not subject to interest rate movements. our interest rate sensitive liabilities consist of subordinated debt securities. a 100 basis point decrease in rates would result in a fair value loss of $5 million and $9 million for december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements herein. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, we had various credit facilities to provide liquidity in the event of material member settlement failures, settlement service operations and other operational needs. these credit facilities have variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in each agreement. there were 4 million euros and no amounts outstanding at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, under these credit facilities. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements herein. equity price risk we own trading securities, which are comprised of equity securities selected to offset obligations in connection with an executive compensation plan. the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market value would result in a loss of $2 million and $3 million in the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. to the extent the executive compensation plan remains in a net appreciation position, an offsetting gain would be recorded in general and administrative expense. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant bank (the acquirer) to the cardholder bank (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated with our payment system cards. interchange fees, including mastercard default interchange fees, are subject to increasingly intense regulatory scrutiny worldwide as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. certain regulators are seeking to reduce these costs through regulatory action. for example: in the european union, the european commission has issued a supplemental statement of objections challenging mastercard cross-border interchange fees for credit, debit and commercial cards under european union competition rules. if we do not obtain a favorable ruling, the european commission could order us to change the manner in which mastercard calculates its cross-border interchange fees. in the united kingdom, the office of fair trading (oft) issued a decision in september 2005 concluding that mastercard u.k. interchange fees contravene u.k. and european union competition 24 table of contents laws. this decision was set aside by the u.k. competition appeals tribunal in june 2006. however, the oft has commenced a new investigation of mastercard current u.k. interchange fees and announced on february 9, 2007 that the investigation would also cover so-called immediate debit cards. if the oft determines that any of mastercard u.k. interchange fees contravene u.k. and european union competition law, it may issue a new decision and possibly levy fines accruing from the date of its first decision. this new investigation will examine whether the new methodology for setting u.k. interchange fees adopted by mastercard in november 2004 in connection with which mastercard withdrew the authority of the u.k. members to set domestic interchange fees and conferred such authority exclusively on mastercard president and chief executive officer or his designee contravenes applicable law. a negative decision could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard u.k. members and on mastercard competitive position and overall business in the u.k. in april 2001, in response to merchant complaints, the polish office for protection of competition and consumers (the pca ) initiated an investigation of mastercard (and visa s) domestic credit and debit card interchange fees. in january 2007, the pca issued a decision that mastercard (and visa s) interchange fees are unlawful under polish competition law, and imposed fines on mastercard (and visa s) licensed financial institutions. mastercard and the financial institutions have appealed the decision. if the appeals are unsuccessful and the pca decision is allowed to stand, it could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard polish members and on mastercard overall business in poland. in early 2004, the new zealand competition commission (the nzcc ) commenced an investigation of mastercard domestic interchange fees. in november 2006, the nzcc filed a lawsuit alleging that mastercard (and visa s) domestic interchange fees do not comply with new zealand competition law, and are seeking penalties. several large merchants subsequently filed similar lawsuits seeking damages. a negative decision in these lawsuits could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard new zealand members and on mastercard overall business in new zealand. in january 2006, a german retailers association filed a complaint with the federal cartel office in germany concerning mastercard (and visa s) domestic interchange fees. the complaint alleges that mastercard (and visa s) german domestic interchange fees are not transparent to merchants and include so-called extraneous costs. in australia, the reserve bank of australia has enacted regulations controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours, that do not regulate the merchant discount charged by proprietary end-to-end networks (such as those offered by american express or discover), which have already benefited from these regulations. interchange fees are also being reviewed in a number of other jurisdictions, including brazil, colombia, mexico, south africa, singapore, hungary, portugal and switzerland. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a coordinated approach to interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. in the united states, interchange fees have also been the topic of increased congressional and regulatory interest. in february 2006, the energy and commerce committee of the u.s. house of representatives held a hearing on interchange fees. a similar hearing was held in the u.s. senate judiciary committee in july 2006 and additional hearings are expected in 2007. in addition, the u.s. senate permanent subcommittee on investigations recently initiated an investigation of credit card practices that will include consideration of interchange fees. also, the general topic of interchange fees has been raised in other congressional hearings and other forums, including conferences held by a number of federal reserve banks. several state legislatures in the united states have considered or proposed interchange legislation. finally, the merchants payment coalition, a coalition representing businesses that accept credit and debit cards, is mounting a challenge to interchange fees in the united states by seeking legislative and regulatory intervention. 25 table of contents in addition, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed approximately fifty class-action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that mastercard purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard, visa and their member banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages in an unspecified amount, attorney fees and injunctive relief. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. if issuers cannot collect or are forced to reduce interchange fees, they may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in a four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. if we are less successful than visa in defending interchange fees, we could also be competitively disadvantaged against visa. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, such regulation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. in addition, this could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. if we are found liable in any of the cases brought by american express or discover, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. in 1998, the u.s. department of justice filed suit against mastercard international, visa u.s.a. inc. and visa international corp. in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york alleging that certain aspects of the governance of mastercard and visa were unlawful, and that mastercard competitive programs policy ( cpp ) and a similar visa bylaw provision that prohibited financial institutions participating in the respective systems from issuing competing proprietary payment cards (such as american express or discover) acted to restrain competition. although we were successful in defending the relevant aspects of our governance structure at trial, the second circuit court of appeals affirmed the trial court judge ruling that our cpp and visa bylaw constituted unlawful restraints of trade under u.s. federal antitrust laws. based on the final judgment in this matter, our cpp became unenforceable in october 2004 and was subsequently repealed. thereafter, discover and american express each filed suit against us, visa u.s.a. inc. and visa international services association alleging that the cpp and visa bylaw provision caused each injury by unlawfully restraining trade under u.s. federal antitrust laws. discover also alleges that it suffered injury by reason of our rules, which required merchants in the united states to accept our debit cards if they accepted other mastercard-branded cards, before these rules were modified as part of the u.s. merchant lawsuit described below. the american express complaint names a number of member banks as co-defendants. in connection with their respective claims, american express and discover each requested that the district court give collateral estoppel effect to its findings in its judgment in the department of justice litigation. although the district court has denied that request at this stage in the litigation, the court indicated that american express and discover may refile a motion for collateral estoppel after further proceedings. if the court were to give effect to collateral estoppel on one or more issues in the future, then significant elements of plaintiffs claims would be established, thereby making it more likely that we would be found liable and making the possibility of an award of damages that much more likely. in the event all issues are subsequently decided against mastercard in dispositive motions during the course of the litigation then there is the possibility that the sole issue remaining at trial will be whether a damage award is appropriate and, if so, what the amount of damages should be. neither american express nor discover has specified the amount of damages sought and, due to the considerable uncertainty associated with these proceedings, it is currently not reasonably possible to estimate the 26 table of contents amount or range of any potential liability. each of american express and discover has conveyed their belief that these damages are substantial. moreover, because these actions have been brought under u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and we may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which could significantly magnify the adverse effect upon us of any adverse judgment. if we are unsuccessful in defending against either or both of these lawsuits, the ultimate liability for mastercard could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the quarterly and annual period when such losses are recognized. such liability could also have a material adverse effect on our overall financial position and, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. similarly, if we decide to settle either or both lawsuits or if we establish provisions in connection with them (which will depend on our continuing reconsideration of the progress of the litigation), such a settlement or the establishment of such provisions could also have such a material adverse effect. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. if the settlements of our currency conversion cases are not ultimately approved and we are unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for members. however, we are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in particular, a trial judge in california found that our currency conversion practice is deceptive under california state law, and ordered us to mandate that members disclose the currency conversion process to cardholders in cardholder agreements, applications, solicitations and monthly billing statements. the judge also ordered unspecified restitution to california cardholders. the decision was reversed on appeal on grounds that plaintiff lacked standing to pursue his claims. in addition, we have been served with similar complaints in several state courts seeking to, in effect, extend the judge decision to mastercard cardholders outside of california. we have succeeded in having several of these cases dismissed or transferred to the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york and combined with putative federal class actions. the class actions allege that our currency conversion practices violate federal antitrust laws. on july 20, 2006, mastercard and the other defendants in the federal class actions entered into agreements settling those cases and related matters, as well as the california state case. pursuant to the settlement agreements, mastercard has paid $72 million to be used for defendants settlement fund to settle the federal actions and $13 million, which is expected to be paid in 2007, to settle the california case. the settlement agreements are subject to final approval by the court and resolution of all appeals. if final approval of the settlement agreements is not granted and we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits or the state currency conversion cases, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. if we are found liable in any of the other litigations that have been brought against us or in any other litigation to which we may be subject in the future, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. there are currently actions against mastercard international in a number of state courts and the district of columbia. in a number of these state courts, there are multiple complaints against mastercard international brought under state unfair competition statutes on behalf of putative classes of consumers. the claims in these actions mirror the allegations made in the u.s. merchant lawsuit, which was brought on behalf of a class of u.s. merchants against mastercard international and visa and alleged, among other things, that our honor all cards rule (and a similar visa rule), which required merchants who accept mastercard cards to accept for 27 table of contents payment every validly presented mastercard card, constituted an illegal tying arrangement in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the plaintiffs also asserted that we and visa conspired to monopolize what they characterized as the point-of-sale debit card market. in june 2003, mastercard international entered into a settlement agreement that resolved the u.s. merchant lawsuit and contract disputes with certain customers. the settlement agreement required, among other things, that we pay $125 million in 2003 and $100 million annually each december from 2004 through 2012. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for a description of the settlement agreement. the putative consumer class actions are not covered by the terms of the june 2003 settlement agreement. these actions assert that merchants, faced with excessive merchant discount fees, have passed these overcharges to consumers in the form of higher prices on goods and services sold. none of the putative consumer class actions specifies the amount of damages sought. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. we may also be sued in the future in the united states or in other jurisdictions by our customers, merchants or consumers for substantial damages or injunctive relief in connection with our business practices. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against the consumer class actions, or any other litigation, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices and pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. except with respect to currency conversion litigations, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. a plaintiff in one of our antitrust litigations has asserted in a written communication that the damages it believes it is likely to recover in its lawsuit will exceed our capital and ability to pay and that the damages in such lawsuit and in our other pending litigations are likely to be in the billions of dollars before trebling. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. these limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the payments industry is generally the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and lead to decreased transaction volumes through our systems. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, our customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such 28 table of contents regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in recent years. for example, in 2002 mastercard became subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352(a) of the usa patriot act, which has required our customers and us to create and implement comprehensive anti-money laundering programs. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. we are also subject to regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). while mastercard has no business operations, subsidiaries or affiliated entities in syria, iran, sudan, north korea or cuba, a limited number of financial institutions are licensed by mastercard to issue cards or acquire merchant transactions in certain of these countries, which have each been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states and are subject to ofac restrictions. our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. further, certain u.s. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. in addition, the federal trade commission and the federal banking agencies are in the process of developing a number of regulations implementing the fair and accurate credit transactions act that could have a material impact on our customers businesses by increasing costs of issuance and/or decreasing the ability of card issuers to set the price of credit. regulators and the u.s. congress have also increased their scrutiny of our customers pricing of credit and their underwriting standards. any legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to operate their credit card programs or price credit freely could result in reduced amounts of credit available to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our transaction volume and revenues. there is also increasing scrutiny of a number of other credit card practices, from which many of our customers derive significant revenue, by congress and governmental agencies. for example, in addition to interchange fees, the senate permanent subcommittee on investigations will also consider the methods used to calculate finance charges and allocate payments received from cardholders, and the methods by which default interest rates, late fees and over-the-credit-limit fees are determined, imposed, and disclosed. these investigative efforts and other congressional activity could lead to legislation and/or regulation that could have a material impact on our customers businesses and our business if implemented. any such legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to operate their credit card programs or to price credit freely could result in reduced revenue and increased costs for our customers, reduced amounts of credit available to consumers and, therefore, a potential reduction of our transaction volume and revenues. the u.s. congress recently enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and will be implemented through a federal rulemaking process that is expected to be completed in 2007. these federal rules could require us and our customers to implement new compliance programs that would increase our costs and/or decrease our transaction volumes. in addition, it is expected that the u.s. congress will renew consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. most u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. various regulatory agencies are also considering regulations covering identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact our 29 table of contents customers directly. the implementation of recently enacted bankruptcy reform legislation in the united states may also directly affect our customers business models for their payment cards business. these new requirements and developments may affect our customers ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause them to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which would reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to the federal trade commission and the banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission information safeguards rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in the united states, a number of bills were considered by congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. congress will likely consider these issues again in 2007 which could result in legislation that would have an adverse impact on us and our customers. in addition, a number of states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. in europe, the european parliament and council have passed the european directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. the directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. regulation of privacy and data use and security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business. business risks we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to issue and promote our cards. in order 30 table of contents to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. our strategy is to grow our business by, among other things, focusing on our key customers and entering into customized business agreements with key customers around the globe. in the future, we may not be able to enter into such agreements on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly, may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may create pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone rapid consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. consolidation represents a competitive threat to us because our strategy contemplates entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in the loss of business for mastercard. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. the continued consolidation in the banking industry also produces a smaller number of large customers, which generally have a greater ability to negotiate pricing discounts with mastercard. in addition, consolidations could prompt our customers to renegotiate our business agreements to obtain more favorable terms. this pressure on the prices we charge our customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, changing regulatory environments in certain regions may lead us to change our pricing arrangements and could reduce our overall revenues. our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2006, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.1 billion, or 34%, of total 31 table of contents revenue. one of our large customers, jpmorgan chase bank and its affiliates, generated 11% of our consolidated revenue in 2006. jpmorgan chase bank also acts as our u.s. settlement bank and has a significant commitment under our revolving credit facility. loss of business from jpmorgan chase bank or any of our other large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. for instance, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. in addition, some large merchants are supporting many of the legal and regulatory challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. large merchants are also able to negotiate pricing discounts and other incentives from us and our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments and other electronic forms of payment, including card-based payment systems. see business competition in part i, item 1 of this report. some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. in addition, our competitors may be more efficient than we are in introducing innovative programs and service. as a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. a significant portion of the revenue we earn outside the united states is generated from cross-border transactions and a decline in cross-border business and leisure travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from fees for processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions. in addition, we charge relatively higher operations fees for settlement, authorization and switch fees on cross-border transactions. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. in particular, international geopolitical, economic and other conditions, including the threat of terrorism and outbreak of diseases such as avian influenza, could cause a decline in cross-border business and leisure travel, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 32 table of contents we have repealed our competitive programs policy ( cpp ) in the united states as a result of a final judgment in our litigation with the u.s. department of justice, and our business may suffer as a result. based on a final judgment of our litigation with the u.s. department of justice, in october 2004, our cpp in the united states, which prohibited financial institutions participating in our system from issuing competing proprietary payment cards, became unenforceable and was subsequently repealed. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. as a result, our issuers are now permitted to issue general purpose credit or debit cards in the united states on any other general purpose card network (such as american express or discover). this may cause our members to issue fewer cards with our brand and to enter into arrangements with our competitors to issue cards, thereby reducing the volume of transactions that we process, decreasing our revenues. a number of our large customers, including bank of america, citibank, hsbc, usaa and ge finance, have begun to issue or have announced that they will issue american express or discover-branded cards. accordingly, the repeal of the cpp may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenue and profitability. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquirers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuer and acquirer customers. in turn, our customers success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. 33 table of contents if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. in recent years, we believe that industry-wide offline and online debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, we believe that transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all offline, signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions. we may also be impacted adversely by any tendency among u.s. consumers or financial institutions to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based transactions, because the latter types of transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks. in addition, we generally earn higher revenues on point-of-sale purchase transactions than on cash access transactions, and on domestic credit and offline debit transactions than on comparable online debit transactions. furthermore, in june 2003, following the settlement of the u.s. merchant lawsuit, visa enacted a bylaw requiring its 100 largest issuers of debit cards in the united states to pay a so-called settlement service fee if these issuers reduce their debit visa volume by more than 10%. this bylaw was later modified to clarify that the settlement service fee would only be imposed if an issuer shifted its portfolio of debit cards to mastercard. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for a description of our response to this bylaw provision. if visa is permitted to impose this settlement service fee on issuers of debit cards according to this bylaw, it would penalize visa members seeking to do debit business with mastercard and would effectively prohibit them from converting their debit card programs to our programs. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. global economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the united states or europe, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. also, as we are principally domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our members default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfall, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal member or affiliate debit licensee is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other members, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not contractually obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, in order to maintain the integrity and acceptance of our brands. our estimated gross legal settlement exposure, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $18.1 billion as of december 31, 2006. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.5 billion which could be used to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our members. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a 34 table of contents settlement failure by any of our largest customers on their peak day, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. for more information on our settlement exposure as of december 31, 2006, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. following our ownership and governance change, we no longer have the right to impose special assessments for extraordinary events upon the members of mastercard international, which could leave us exposed to significant losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in connection with our ownership and governance change, the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of mastercard international were amended to eliminate the right of mastercard international to impose special assessments for extraordinary events upon its members. this special assessment right previously allowed mastercard international to recover from its members all or a portion of its expenses and liabilities arising out of extraordinary events, such as settlements or judgments in major litigations and catastrophic occurrences that may cause significant risk or damage to mastercard. we now bear the expenses and liabilities associated with extraordinary events without recourse to members of mastercard international through a right of assessment. accordingly, the loss of this special assessment right for extraordinary events leaves us exposed to significant risks and losses from these types of extraordinary events, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. most of our transaction processing systems are controlled by a single facility, supported by a separate smaller co-processing facility. a disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, such as at&amp;t, for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with payment cards bearing our brands. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. in 2005 and 2006, there were several high-profile account data compromise events potentially affecting millions of cardholders. in addition, in 2007, tjx companies inc., which owns several retailers, including t.j. maxx, marshalls, homegoods and a.j.wright stores, announced that it suffered an unauthorized intrusion into its computer systems that process and store information related to credit and debit card transactions, which could affect millions of mastercard, visa, discover and american express cardholders. as a result, we may be subject to lawsuits in connection with data security breaches involving payment cards carrying our brands. if we are unsuccessful in defending lawsuits involving such data security breaches, we may 35 table of contents be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance or enhanced security requirements, and damage to our reputation and financial damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which would reduce our revenue and income. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. we may face increased competition resulting from a change in ownership of our competitors, which could have an adverse impact our revenue. both visa and discover have recently announced plans to change their ownership structures, which could result in them becoming stronger and more efficient companies within the global payments industry. in october 2006, visa announced its plan to restructure its organization through the creation of a new stock corporation owned by its current member financial institutions, to be followed by an initial public offering within 12 to 18 months. in december 2006, morgan stanley announced that it would spin-off its discover card unit as a publicly-traded company in the third quarter of 2007. if we are unable to compete effectively with visa and discover, then use of our programs and products could decline, which would have an adverse impact on our revenues. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations. during 2006, approximately 47.7% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange 36 table of contents control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may evaluate or make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our benefit plans. we provide certain retirement benefits to our u.s. employees through the mastercard accumulation plan (map), a qualified cash balance benefit plan. while two u.s. federal circuit courts of appeal have ruled that cash balance pension plans do not violate the age discrimination provisions of erisa, various other courts have ruled that such plans are age discriminatory. when this issue is resolved definitely, we may be required to amend the map and, like other u.s. companies with cash balance plans, may be exposed to claims from plan participants. these developments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. we currently have 79,631,983 outstanding shares of class a common stock of which 13,496,933 shares were donated by mastercard to the foundation. under the terms of the donation, the foundation may sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. however, the foundation has obtained permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to ten years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the ten-year period. despite this permission to defer annual disbursements, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. in addition, the foundation will be permitted to sell all of the remaining shares held by it starting twenty years and eleven months after the consummation of the ipo. in addition, holders of our class b common stock will, commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo, have the option to convert their shares of class b common stock into shares of our class a common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to certain rights of first refusal by the other holders of class b common stock, in connection with sale of such stock to an eligible holder. all of the shares of class a common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares will be freely tradable without restriction or registration under the securities act by persons other than our affiliates. these future sales, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. 37 table of contents the trading market for our class a common stock could be adversely affected because provisions of our certificate of incorporation will make it in many cases difficult for broker-dealers that are members or affiliates of members of mastercard international to make a market in our class a common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no person who is a member or affiliated with a member of mastercard international, which we refer to collectively as member affiliates, as well as the broker-dealer affiliates of such members, will be permitted to beneficially own any shares of class a common stock or certain other voting stock (or securities convertible or exchangeable into such stock) at any time, subject to a limited number of exceptions. those exceptions include (1) an underwriter participating in an offering of such securities may beneficially own such securities, but only to the extent necessary to facilitate that offering and (2) such a person may beneficially own such securities if those securities are held for the benefit of third parties or in customer or fiduciary accounts in the ordinary course of such person business and are held by such person without the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of mastercard. accordingly, no member affiliate is able to trade as a principal in our class a common stock and is restricted in its ability to act as a market-maker in our class a common stock, although member affiliates are able to execute trades as agents for third parties. these restrictions on the ability of the member affiliates to engage in market-making may adversely affect the trading market for the class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock, the class b common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, no member or former member of mastercard international, or any operator, member or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; up to three of our directors (but no more than one-quarter of all directors) are elected by the holders of our class m common stock; any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors; our directors, other than the directors elected by the holders of our class m common stock (who may be removed without cause by the holders of the class m common stock), may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class; our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; we have adopted limited liability provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors and the members of our european board for monetary damages for actions taken as a director or member, with certain exceptions; and 38 table of contents a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws. a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. the foundation owns 13,496,933 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 17% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the ipo, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements starting on the fourth anniversary of the ipo. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our members. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors and to approve significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different than our other shareholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to obtain the approval of the holders of our class m common stock, voting separately as a class, for a variety of enumerated actions. for example, the approval of the holders of our class m common stock is required to make certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation, to approve the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets, to approve the consummation of mergers or consolidations of mastercard or for us to cease to engage in the business of providing core network authorization, clearing and settlement services for branded payment card transactions. in addition, the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors. because shares of the class m common stock do not have any economic rights, the holders of the class m common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable for the holders of class a common stock, or their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. certain aspects of our european operations are managed by the european board which has been elected by the european holders of class m common stock and which may reach different decisions than our global board of directors. certain aspects of our european operations, including review of membership applications, levying of fines and certain assessments and fees applicable to european members, establishment of intraregional operating rules, approval of the european annual expense budget, disbursing surplus funds, and implementation of certain intraregional product and enhancement developments and affinity and co-branding rules are managed by or under the direction of our european board. the european board is elected by holders of our class m common stock who have their principal operations in europe, and consists of representatives of our european members. although our board of directors may, through a majority or a two-thirds vote depending on the circumstances, override decisions or temporarily assume any authority granted to the european board, the european board may reach different decisions than our board of directors would have reached on the same matter. 39 table of contents our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by 64 table of contents the board of directors, governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there have been no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2006 as compared to december 31, 2005. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, forward currency contracts against the u.s. dollar were both purchased (with notional amounts of $35 million and $78 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $17 million and $33 million, respectively). based on the year end 2006 and 2005 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create a loss valued at $2 million and $4 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, forward currency contracts against the euro were purchased (with notional amounts of $121 million and $218 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $45 million and $39 million, respectively). based on the year end 2006 and 2005 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the euro is estimated to create a loss valued at $7 million and $16 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. at december 31, 2006, forward currency contracts against the brazilian real were purchased (with notional amounts of $11 million). based on the year end 2006 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the brazilian real is estimated to create a loss valued at $1 million. our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the extent that the timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions is typically one business day and by limiting the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of nineteen other stable transaction currencies. the remaining 145 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. based on the net present value of expected future cash flows, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in fair value changes and an unrealized loss recorded in other comprehensive income of $22 million and $19 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. our held-to-maturity investments are not subject to interest rate movements. our interest rate sensitive liabilities consist of subordinated debt securities. a 100 basis point decrease in rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in a fair value loss of $2 million and $5 million for december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 in this report. 65 table of contents at december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had various credit facilities to provide liquidity in the event of material member settlement failures, settlement service operations and other operational needs. these credit facilities have variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in each agreement. there were 3 million euros and 5 million euros outstanding at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, under these credit facilities. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 in this report. equity price risk we own trading securities, which are comprised of equity securities selected to offset obligations in connection with an executive compensation plan. the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market value would result in a loss of $1 million and $2 million in the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. to the extent the executive compensation plan remains in a net appreciation position, an offsetting gain would be recorded in general and administrative expense. 66 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant bank (the acquirer) to the cardholder bank (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated with our payment system cards. interchange fees, including our default interchange fees, are subject to increasingly intense regulatory scrutiny worldwide as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. certain regulators are seeking to reduce these fees through regulatory action. for example: in the european union, the european commission recently announced a decision with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. the decision requires mastercard to cease applying its default cross-border interchange fees for mastercard and maestro branded consumer payment card transactions in the european economic area (the eea ), to refrain from repeating the infringement, and not to apply its recently adopted (but not yet implemented) maestro sepa and intra-eurozone default interchange fees to debit payment transactions within the eurozone. the decision gives mastercard until june 21, 2008 to comply, with the possibility that the commission may extend this time at its discretion. the decision also requires mastercard to issue certain specific notices to financial institutions and other entities that participate in its mastercard and maestro payment systems in the eea and make certain specific public announcements, regarding the steps it has taken to comply. the decision does not impose a fine on mastercard, but provides for a daily penalty of 3.5% of mastercard daily consolidated global turnover in the preceding business year in the event that mastercard fails to comply. mastercard intends to appeal the european commission decision to the eu court of first instance. because a balancing mechanism like default cross-border interchange fees constitutes an essential element of mastercard europe operations, the european commision decision could significantly impact mastercard international european customers and mastercard europe business. furthermore, the european commission decision could lead to competition authorities in one or more eu member states commencing investigations or proceedings regarding domestic interchange fees. in addition, the european commission decision could lead to the filing of private actions against mastercard europe by merchants and/or consumers which, if mastercard is unsuccessful in its appeal of the decision, could result in mastercard owing substantial damages. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for more details regarding the european commission decision. 24 table of contents in the united kingdom, the office of fair trading (oft) issued a decision in september 2005 concluding that mastercard u.k. interchange fees contravene u.k. and european union competition laws. this decision was set aside by the u.k. competition appeals tribunal in june 2006. however, the oft has commenced a new investigation of our current u.k. interchange fees and announced on february 9, 2007 that the investigation also covers so-called immediate debit cards. if the oft determines that any of our u.k. interchange fees contravene u.k. and european union competition law, it may issue a new decision and possibly levy fines accruing from the date of its first decision. this new investigation will examine whether the new methodology for setting u.k. interchange fees adopted by mastercard in november 2004 in connection with which mastercard withdrew the authority of the u.k. members to set domestic interchange fees and conferred such authority exclusively on our president and chief executive officer or his designee contravenes applicable law. mastercard understands that the oft intends to commence a formal proceeding through the issuance of a statement of objections in the near future. a negative decision could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard u.k. members and on our competitive position and overall business in the united kingdom. in april 2001, in response to merchant complaints, the polish office for protection of competition and consumers (the pca ) initiated an investigation of our (and visa s) domestic credit and debit card interchange fees. in january 2007, the pca issued a decision that our (and visa s) interchange fees are unlawful under polish competition law, and imposed fines on our (and visa s) licensed financial institutions. mastercard and the financial institutions have appealed the decision. if the appeals are unsuccessful and the pca decision is allowed to stand, it could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard polish members and on our overall business in poland. in early 2004, the new zealand competition commission (the nzcc ) commenced an investigation of our domestic interchange fees. in november 2006, the nzcc filed a lawsuit alleging that our (and visa s) domestic interchange fees do not comply with new zealand competition law, and seeking penalties. several large merchants subsequently filed similar lawsuits seeking damages. a negative decision in these lawsuits could subject mastercard to fines and/or damages and could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of our new zealand members and on our overall business in new zealand. on january 31, 2008, the hungarian competition authority commenced a formal investigation of mastercard europe domestic interchange fees in hungary. in january 2006, a german retailers association filed a complaint with the federal cartel office in germany concerning our (and visa s) domestic interchange fees. the complaint alleges that our (and visa s) german domestic interchange fees are not transparent to merchants and include so-called extraneous costs. in australia, the reserve bank of australia has enacted regulations controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours, that do not regulate the merchant discount charged by proprietary end-to-end networks (such as those offered by american express or discover), which have already benefited from these regulations. interchange fees are also being reviewed in a number of other jurisdictions, including brazil, colombia, mexico, south africa, singapore and switzerland. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a coordinated approach to interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. in the united states, interchange fees have also been the topic of increased congressional and regulatory interest. in july 2007, the antitrust task force of the judiciary committee of the u.s. house of representatives held a hearing on interchange fees. similar hearings were held by the u.s. senate judiciary committee in july 2006 and the u.s. house energy and commerce committee in february 2006, and additional hearings and proposed legislation are expected in 2008. in addition, 25 table of contents the u.s. senate permanent subcommittee on investigations recently initiated an investigation of credit card practices that will include consideration of interchange fees. also, the general topic of interchange fees has been raised in other congressional hearings and other forums, including conferences held by a number of federal reserve banks. additionally, several state legislatures in the united states have considered or proposed interchange legislation. in addition, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed approximately fifty class-action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard, visa and their member banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages in an unspecified amount, attorney fees and injunctive relief. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, they may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. if we are less successful than visa in defending interchange fees, we could also be competitively disadvantaged against visa. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, such regulation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. in addition, this could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. if we are found liable in any of the cases brought by american express or discover, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. in 1998, the u.s. department of justice filed suit against mastercard international, visa u.s.a. inc. and visa international corp. in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york alleging that certain aspects of the governance of mastercard and visa were unlawful, and that our cpp and a similar visa bylaw provision that prohibited financial institutions participating in the respective systems from issuing competing proprietary payment cards (such as american express or discover) acted to restrain competition. although we were successful in defending the relevant aspects of our governance structure at trial, the second circuit court of appeals affirmed the trial court judge ruling that our cpp and visa bylaw constituted unlawful restraints of trade under u.s. federal antitrust laws. based on the final judgment in this matter, our cpp became unenforceable in october 2004 and was subsequently repealed. thereafter, discover and american express each filed suit against us, visa u.s.a. inc. and visa international services association alleging that the cpp and visa bylaw provision caused each injury by unlawfully restraining trade under u.s. federal antitrust laws. the american express complaint named a number of member banks as co-defendants. in connection with their respective claims, american express and discover each requested that the district court give collateral estoppel effect to its findings in its judgment in the department of justice litigation. although the district court has denied that request early in the litigation, the court indicated that american express and discover may refile a motion for collateral estoppel after further proceedings. those motions were filed on february 15, 2008 and briefing is scheduled to be completed by april 21, 2008. if the court were to give effect to collateral estoppel on one or more issues in the future, then significant elements of plaintiffs claims would be established, thereby making it more likely that we would be found liable and making the possibility of an award of damages that much more likely. in the event all issues are subsequently decided against mastercard in dispositive motions during the 26 table of contents course of the litigation, then there is the possibility that the sole issue remaining at trial will be whether a damage award is appropriate and, if so, what the amount of damages should be. in november 2007, visa and the remaining bank defendants reached an agreement with american express to settle the claims brought against them by american express. as a result, mastercard is the sole remaining defendant in the american express action. at this time, it is not possible to ascertain the amount of any potential liability related to these matters. american express and discover have each submitted confidential expert reports purporting to demonstrate that they have incurred damages in the billions of dollars (although mastercard has submitted confidential expert reports countering the damages arguments made in american express and discover reports and concluding that damages are negative). moreover, because these actions have been brought under u.s. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages would be trebled and we may be subject to joint and several liability, or liability for the acts of all named defendants, if liability is established, which could significantly increase the adverse effect upon us of any adverse judgment. american express has publicly stated that it intends to seek full recovery from mastercard for all of the damages it alleges it sustained. if american express is able to prove a conspiracy between mastercard and visa or is able to establish that all damages are attributable to mastercard conduct, it would be entitled to recover the full measure of its damages from mastercard. if we are unsuccessful in defending against either or both of these lawsuits, the ultimate liability for mastercard could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the quarterly and annual period when such losses are recognized. such liability could also have a material adverse effect on our overall financial position and, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. similarly, if we decide to settle either or both lawsuits or if we establish provisions in connection with them (which will depend on our continuing reconsideration of the progress of the litigation), such a settlement or the establishment of such provisions could also have a material adverse effect. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information. if the settlements of our currency conversion cases are not ultimately approved and we are unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for members. however, we are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in particular, a trial judge in california found that our currency conversion practice is deceptive under california state law, and ordered us to mandate that members disclose the currency conversion process to cardholders in cardholder agreements, applications, solicitations and monthly billing statements. the judge also ordered unspecified restitution to california cardholders. the decision was reversed on appeal on grounds that plaintiff lacked standing to pursue his claims. in addition, we have been served with similar complaints in several state courts seeking to, in effect, extend the judge decision to mastercard cardholders outside of california. we have succeeded in having several of these cases dismissed or transferred to the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york and combined with putative federal class actions. the class actions allege that our currency conversion practices violate federal antitrust laws. on july 20, 2006, mastercard and the other defendants in the federal class actions entered into agreements settling those cases and related matters, as well as the california state case. pursuant to the settlement agreements, mastercard has paid $72 million to be used for defendants settlement fund to settle the federal actions and $13 million to settle the california case. the settlement agreements are subject to final approval by the court and resolution of all appeals. if final approval of the settlement agreements is not granted and we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits or the state currency conversion cases, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. 27 table of contents if we are found liable in any of the other litigations that have been brought against us or in any other litigation to which we may be subject in the future, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. there are currently actions against mastercard international in california, west virginia and new mexico state courts. the complaints are brought under state unfair competition statutes on behalf of putative classes of consumers. the claims in these actions mirror the allegations made in the u.s. merchant lawsuit, which was brought on behalf of a class of u.s. merchants against mastercard international and visa and alleged, among other things, that our honor all cards rule (and a similar visa rule), which required merchants who accept mastercard cards to accept for payment every validly presented mastercard card, constituted an illegal tying arrangement in violation of section 1 of the sherman act. the plaintiffs also asserted that we and visa conspired to monopolize what they characterized as the point-of-sale debit card market. in june 2003, mastercard international entered into a settlement agreement that resolved the u.s. merchant lawsuit. the settlement agreement required, among other things, that we pay $125 million in 2003 and $100 million annually each december from 2004 through 2012. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for a description of the settlement agreement. the putative consumer class actions are not covered by the terms of the june 2003 settlement agreement. these actions assert that merchants, faced with excessive merchant discount fees, have passed these overcharges to consumers in the form of higher prices on goods and services sold. none of these actions specify the amount of damages sought, although mastercard has entered into a settlement agreement for the action in west virginia that is subject to court approval. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. we may also be sued in the future in the united states or in other jurisdictions by our customers, merchants or consumers for substantial damages or injunctive relief in connection with our business practices. if we are unsuccessful in our defense against the consumer class actions, or any other litigation, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices and pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. except with respect to currency conversion litigations and the west virginia consumer state action, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. a plaintiff in one of our antitrust litigations has asserted in a written communication that the damages it believes it is likely to recover in its lawsuit will exceed our capital and ability to pay and that the damages in such lawsuit and in our other pending litigations are likely to be in the billions of dollars before trebling. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. 28 table of contents limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. these limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the payments industry is generally the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and lead to decreased transaction volumes through our systems. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, our customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. for example, in 2002 mastercard became subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352(a) of the usa patriot act, which has required our customers and us to create and implement comprehensive anti-money laundering programs. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. we are also subject to regulations imposed by ofac. ofac regulations impose restrictions on financial transactions with cuba, burma/myanmar, iran and sudan and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. also cuba, iran, north korea, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. while mastercard has no business operations, subsidiaries or affiliated entities in these countries, a limited number of financial institutions are licensed by mastercard to issue cards or acquire merchant transactions in certain of these countries. mastercard takes measures to avoid transactions with persons and entities on the sdn list. however, it is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the sdn list may be processed through our payment system. it is possible that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. further, certain u.s. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. in addition, the federal trade commission and the federal banking agencies have issued a number of regulations implementing the fair and accurate credit transactions act, and other regulations are expected to be issued in 2008. these regulations could have a material impact on our customers businesses by increasing costs of issuance and/or decreasing the ability of card issuers to set the price of credit. the federal reserve board also proposed a regulation in 2007 to amend regulation z, which implements the truth in lending act. this regulation will have a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and could affect their account terms and business practices. regulators and the u.s. congress have also increased their scrutiny of our customers pricing of credit and their underwriting standards. any legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to operate their credit card programs or price credit freely could result in reduced amounts of credit available to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our transaction volume and revenues. 29 table of contents there is also increasing scrutiny of a number of other credit card practices, from which many of our customers derive significant revenue, by congress and governmental agencies. for example, in addition to scrutiny of interchange fees, the senate permanent subcommittee on investigations and other senate and house committees and subcommittees are considering a variety of our customers practices, including the methods used to calculate finance charges and allocate payments received from cardholders, and the methods by which default interest rates, late fees and over-the-credit-limit or overdraft fees are determined, imposed, and disclosed. the u.s. congress may also continue to examine possible changes to the bankruptcy code. these investigative efforts and other congressional activity could lead to legislation and/or regulation that could have a material impact on our customers businesses and our business if implemented. any such legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to operate their credit card programs or to price credit freely could result in reduced revenue and increased costs for our customers, reduced amounts of credit available to consumers and, therefore, a potential reduction of our transaction volume and revenues. in october 2006, the u.s. congress enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is being implemented through a federal rulemaking process that is underway. final rules will be forthcoming at an unspecified date. these federal rules, once finalized and effective, will require us and our customers to implement compliance programs that could increase our costs and/or decrease our transaction volumes. in addition, the u.s. congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. some u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact our customers directly. these new requirements and developments may affect our customers ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause them to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which would reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. our ability to compete effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries could be curtailed by government actions, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card providers or national payment processing providers to support domestic competitors or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. our efforts to effect change in countries where our access to the domestic payments segment is limited may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. 30 table of contents existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to the federal trade commission and the banking agency information safeguard requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission information safeguards rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in the united states, a number of bills were considered by congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. while no legislation was passed in 2007, congress continues to consider these issues which could result in legislation that would have an adverse impact on us and our customers. in addition, a number of states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. in europe, the european parliament and council have passed the european directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. this directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. regulation of privacy and data use and security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. business risks we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new segments and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. our strategy is to grow our business by, among other things, focusing on our customers and entering into customized business agreements with customers around the globe. in the future, we may not be able to enter into such agreements on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger 31 table of contents and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly, may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone rapid consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. consolidation represents a competitive threat to us because our strategy contemplates entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in the loss of business for mastercard. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, changing regulatory environments in certain regions may lead us to change our pricing arrangements and could reduce our overall revenues. our revenue would decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2007, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.2 billion, or 31%, of total revenue. none of our customers generate 10% of total revenue. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. for instance, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant 32 table of contents lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see notes 18 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. in addition, some large merchants are supporting many of the legal and regulatory challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. large merchants are also able to negotiate pricing discounts and other incentives from us and our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments and other electronic forms of payment, including card-based and non-card-based payment systems. see business competition in item 1 of this report. some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. as a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems and payments in electronic commerce and for mobile devices. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. a significant portion of the revenue we earn outside the united states is generated from cross-border transactions, and a decline in cross-border business and leisure travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from fees for processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions. in addition, we charge relatively higher operations fees for settlement, authorization and switch fees on cross-border transactions. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. in particular, international geopolitical, economic and other conditions, including the threat of terrorism and outbreak of diseases could cause a decline in cross-border business and leisure travel, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we have repealed our cpp in the united states as a result of a final judgment in our litigation with the u.s. department of justice, and our business may suffer as a result. based on a final judgment of our litigation with the u.s. department of justice, in october 2004, our cpp in the united states, which prohibited financial institutions participating in our system from issuing competing proprietary payment cards, became unenforceable and was subsequently repealed. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. as a result, our issuers are now permitted to issue general purpose credit or debit cards in the united states on any other general purpose card network (such as american express or discover). this may cause our customers to issue fewer cards with our brand and to 33 table of contents enter into arrangements with our competitors to issue cards, thereby reducing the volume of transactions that we process and decreasing our revenues. a number of our large customers, including bank of america, citibank, hsbc, usaa and ge money, have begun to issue or have announced that they will issue american express or discover-branded cards. accordingly, the repeal of the cpp may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenue and profitability. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquirers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity, introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. 34 table of contents our business may be materially and adversely affected by the marketplace perception of our brands and reputation. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to mastercard-branded products is highly dependent upon the external perception of our company and industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business. if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. in recent years, we believe that industry-wide offline and online debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all offline, signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions. we may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. consumers and merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. in addition, online, pin-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. furthermore, in june 2003, following the settlement of the u.s. merchant lawsuit, visa enacted a bylaw requiring its 100 largest issuers of debit cards in the united states to pay a so-called settlement service fee if these issuers reduce their visa debit volume by more than 10%. this bylaw was later modified to clarify that the settlement service fee would only be imposed if an issuer shifted its portfolio of debit cards to mastercard. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for a description of our response to this bylaw provision. as a result of a district court decision, visa repealed this bylaw. the decision is on appeal. if the decision were overturned and the bylaw were reinstated, and visa were therefore permitted to impose this settlement service fee on issuers of debit cards according to this bylaw, it would penalize visa members seeking to do debit business with mastercard and would effectively prohibit them from converting their debit card programs to our programs, which may prevent us from acquiring business from current visa customers. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. global economic, political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the united states or europe, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. also, as we are principally domiciled in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfall, insolvency or other reasons. if a 35 table of contents principal member or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard international is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not contractually obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, in order to maintain the integrity and acceptance of our brands. our estimated gross legal settlement exposure, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $23 billion as of december 31, 2007. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.5 billion which could be used to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of our largest customers on their peak day, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. for more information on our settlement exposure as of december 31, 2007, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. following our ownership and governance change in may 2006, we no longer have the right to impose special assessments for extraordinary events upon the members of mastercard international, which could leave us exposed to significant losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. in connection with our ownership and governance change, the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of mastercard international were amended to eliminate the right of mastercard international to impose special assessments for extraordinary events upon its members. this special assessment right previously allowed mastercard international to recover from its members all or a portion of its expenses and liabilities arising out of extraordinary events, such as settlements or judgments in major litigations and catastrophic occurrences that may cause significant risk or damage to mastercard. we now bear the expenses and liabilities associated with extraordinary events without recourse to members of mastercard international through a right of assessment. accordingly, the loss of this special assessment right for extraordinary events leaves us exposed to significant risks and losses from these types of extraordinary events, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions as a result of fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. a disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, such as at&amp;t, bt and orange, for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with payment cards bearing our brands. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. in 2005 and 2006, there were several high-profile account data compromise events 36 table of contents potentially affecting millions of cardholders. in addition, in 2007, tjx companies inc., which owns several retailers in the united states, canada and the u.k., including t.j. maxx, marshalls, homegoods and a.j.wright stores, announced that it suffered an unauthorized intrusion into its computer systems that process and store information related to credit and debit card transactions, which affected millions of mastercard, visa, discover and american express cardholders. as a result, we may be subject to lawsuits in connection with data security breaches involving payment cards carrying our brands. if we are unsuccessful in defending lawsuits involving such data security breaches, we may be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit, or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, and damage to our reputation and financial damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which would reduce our revenue and income. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. we may face increased competition resulting from a change in ownership of our competitors, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. among other companies in our industry, visa and discover recently changed their ownership structures, which could result in them becoming stronger and more efficient companies within the global payments industry. in october 2007, visa completed its plan to restructure its organization through the creation of a new stock corporation owned by its current member financial institutions, and in november 2007 filed an initial registration statement with the sec in connection with a planned initial public offering. in july 2007, discover began trading on the new york stock exchange as a publicly-traded company following its spin-off from morgan stanley. as publicly-owned companies, visa and discover, among other changes, would have enhanced access to the capital markets and may improve operating results, which could be used to enhance their competitive position. if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, then use of our programs and products could decline, which would have an adverse impact on our revenues. 37 table of contents adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations. during 2007, approximately 50.3% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may evaluate or make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. if so, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our benefit plans. we provide certain retirement benefits to our u.s. employees through the mastercard accumulation plan (map), a qualified cash balance benefit plan. while two u.s. federal circuit courts of appeal have ruled that cash balance pension plans do not violate the age discrimination provisions of erisa, various other courts have ruled that such plans are age discriminatory. when this issue is resolved definitely, we may be required to amend the map and, like other u.s. companies with cash balance plans, may be exposed to claims from plan participants. these developments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. as of february 19, 2008, we had 87,180,453 outstanding shares of class a common stock of which 13,496,933 shares were owned by the foundation. under the terms of the donation, the foundation may sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. however, the foundation has obtained permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to ten years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the ten-year period. despite this permission to defer annual disbursements, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. in addition, the foundation will be permitted to sell all of the remaining shares held by it starting twenty years and eleven months after the consummation of the ipo. 38 table of contents in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of our class b common stock would be eligible, through conversion transactions in amounts and times to be designated by the company, to convert their shares of class b common stock into shares of our class a common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent transfer or sale to an eligible holder, subject to annual aggregate and other limits. the company completed two such voluntary conversion programs during 2007. after may 31, 2010, holders of our class b common stock will have the option to convert all of their shares of class b common stock into shares of class a common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent sale to the public, without aggregate amounts or similar limitations. all of the shares of class a common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares will be freely tradable without restriction or registration under the securities act by persons other than our affiliates. these future sales, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock, the class b common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, no member or former member of mastercard international, or any operator, member or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; up to three of our directors (but no more than one-quarter of all directors) are elected by the holders of our class m common stock; any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors; our directors, other than the directors elected by the holders of our class m common stock (who may be removed without cause by the holders of the class m common stock), may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class; our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; we have adopted limited liability provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors and the members of our european board for monetary damages for actions taken as a director or member, with certain exceptions; and a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws. 39 table of contents a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. the foundation owns 13,496,933 shares of class a common stock, representing, as of february 19, 2008, approximately 15% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the ipo, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements starting on the fourth anniversary of the ipo. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our members. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors and to approve significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of our other shareholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to obtain the approval of the holders of our class m common stock, voting separately as a class, for a variety of enumerated actions. for example, the approval of the holders of our class m common stock is required to make certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation, to approve the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets, to approve the consummation of mergers or consolidations of mastercard or for us to cease to engage in the business of providing core network authorization, clearing and settlement services for branded payment card transactions. in addition, the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors. because shares of the class m common stock do not have any economic rights, the holders of the class m common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable for the holders of class a common stock, or their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. certain aspects of our european operations are managed by the european board which has been elected by the european holders of class m common stock and which may reach different decisions than our global board of directors. certain aspects of our european operations, including review of membership applications, levying of fines and certain assessments and fees applicable to european members, establishment of intraregional operating rules, approval of the european annual expense budget, disbursing surplus funds, and implementation of certain intraregional product and enhancement developments and affinity and co-branding rules are managed by or under the direction of our european board. the european board is elected by holders of our class m common stock who have their principal operations in europe, and consists of representatives of our european members. although our board of directors may, through a majority or a two-thirds vote depending on the circumstances, override decisions or temporarily assume any authority granted to the european board, the european board may reach different decisions than our board of directors would have reached on the same matter. our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to 40 table of contents generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by the board of directors, governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there have been no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2007 as compared to december 31, 2006. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is 65 table of contents to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, forward currency contracts against the u.s. dollar were both purchased (with notional amounts of $40 million and $35 million, respectively) and sold (with notional amounts of $22 million and $17 million, respectively). based on the year end 2007 and 2006 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the u.s. dollar is estimated to create a fair value loss valued at $2 million at both december 31, 2007 and 2006. at december 31, 2007, there were no forward currency contracts purchased against the euro. at december 31, 2006, forward currency contracts against the euro were purchased (with notional amounts of $121 million). at december 31, 2007 and 2006, forward currency contracts against the euro were sold (with notional amounts of $50 million and $45 million, respectively). based on the year end 2007 and 2006 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent weakening and strengthening of the euro, respectively, is estimated to create a fair value loss valued at $6 million and $7 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. at december 31, 2007, there were no forward currency contracts purchased against the brazilian real. at december 31, 2006, forward currency contracts against the brazilian real were purchased (with notional amounts of $11 million). based on the year end 2006 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the brazilian real is estimated to create a fair value loss valued at $1 million. at december 31, 2007, mastercard investment in redecard s.a. was subject to foreign exchange risk. based on the year end 2007 foreign exchange positions, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the brazilian real is estimated to create a loss valued at $9 million. our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the extent that the timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions is typically one business day and by limiting the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of nineteen other transaction currencies. the remaining 145 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. based on the net present value of expected future cash flows, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in fair value changes and an unrealized loss recorded in other comprehensive income of $23 million and $25 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. our held-to-maturity investments are not subject to interest rate movements. our interest rate sensitive liabilities consist of $80 million of subordinated debt securities. a 100 basis point decrease in rates, assuming a parallel shift of the yield curve, would result in a fair value loss of $1 million and $2 million for december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 25 risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, and thus on our revenue. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant bank (the acquirer) to the cardholder bank (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated with our payment system cards. interchange fees, including our default interchange fees, are subject to increasingly intense litigation and regulatory scrutiny worldwide as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. merchants in the u.s. and new zealand, and regulators in a number of countries are seeking to reduce these fees through litigation or regulatory action. for example: in the european union, the european commission announced a decision in december 2007 with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. the decision required mastercard to cease applying its default cross-border interchange fees for mastercard and maestro branded consumer payment card transactions in the european economic area (the eea ), to refrain from repeating the infringement, and not to apply its then recently adopted 25 table of contents (but never implemented) maestro sepa and intra-eurozone default interchange fees to debit card payment transactions within the eurozone. the decision also required mastercard to issue certain specific notices to financial institutions and other entities that participate in its mastercard and maestro payment systems in the eea and make certain specific public announcements, regarding the steps it has taken to comply. the decision does not impose a fine on mastercard, but provides for a daily penalty of up to 3.5% of mastercard daily consolidated global turnover in the preceding business year (which mastercard presently estimates to be approximately $500,000 u.s. per day) in the event that mastercard fails to comply. in march 2008, mastercard filed an application for annulment of the european commission decision with the eu court of first instance. on june 12, 2008 mastercard announced that, effective june 21, 2008, mastercard would temporarily repeal its then current default intra-eea cross-border consumer card interchange fees in conformity with the decision. discussions are continuing between mastercard and the european commission concerning what interchange fee setting methodology mastercard might employ and what level of interchange fees it might establish in compliance with the decision. although mastercard believes that any business practices it would implement in response to the decision would be in compliance with the decision, the european commission may deem any such practice not in compliance with the decision, or in violation of european competition law, in which case mastercard may be assessed fines for the period that it is not in compliance. furthermore, because a balancing mechanism like default cross-border interchange fees constitutes an essential element of mastercard europe operations, the decision could also significantly impact mastercard international european customers and mastercard europe business. the european commission decision could also lead to competition authorities in one or more eu member states commencing investigations or proceedings regarding domestic interchange fees. in addition, the european commission decision could lead to the filing of private actions against mastercard europe by merchants and/or consumers which, if mastercard is unsuccessful in its appeal of the decision, could result in mastercard owing substantial damages. in october 2008, mastercard received an information request from the european commission in connection with the decision concerning certain pricing changes that mastercard has implemented as of october 2008. mastercard submitted its response in november 2008. mastercard understands that the european commission is contemplating commencing a formal proceeding concerning the pricing changes on the basis that they contravene the decision. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for more details regarding the european commission decision. in the united kingdom, the office of fair trading (oft) issued a decision in september 2005 concluding that mastercard u.k. credit card interchange fees contravene u.k. and european union competition laws. this decision was set aside by the u.k. competition appeals tribunal in june 2006. however, shortly thereafter, the oft commenced a new investigation of our current u.k. credit card interchange fees and announced on february 9, 2007 that the investigation also covers so-called immediate debit cards. if the oft determines that any of our u.k. interchange fees contravene u.k. and european union competition law, it may issue a new decision and possibly levy fines accruing from the date of its first decision. this new investigation will examine whether the new methodology for setting u.k. interchange fees adopted by mastercard in november 2004 in connection with which mastercard withdrew the authority of the u.k. members to set domestic interchange fees and conferred such authority exclusively on our president and chief executive officer or his designee contravenes applicable law. mastercard understands that the oft is considering whether to commence a formal proceeding through the issuance of a statement of objections. a negative decision could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard u.k. members and on our competitive position and overall business in the united kingdom. in april 2001, in response to merchant complaints, the polish office for protection of competition and consumers (the pca ) initiated an investigation of our (and visa s) domestic credit and debit card interchange fees. in january 2007, the pca issued a decision that our (and visa s) interchange fees are unlawful under polish competition law, and imposed fines on our (and visa s) licensed financial 26 table of contents institutions. the pca also decided that mastercard (and visa) had not violated the law. mastercard and the financial institutions appealed the decision. in november 2008, the appeals court reversed the decision of the pca and also rejected mastercard appeal on the basis that mastercard did not have a legal interest in the pca decision because its conduct was not found to be in breach of the relevant competition laws. mastercard has appealed this part of the appeals court decision because it has significant interest in the outcome of the case. the pca has appealed other parts of the decision. if on appeal, the pca decision is ultimately allowed to stand, it could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of mastercard polish members and on our overall business in poland. in early 2004, the new zealand competition commission (the nzcc ) commenced an investigation of our domestic interchange fees. in november 2006, the nzcc filed a lawsuit alleging that our (and visa s) domestic interchange fees do not comply with new zealand competition law, and seeking penalties. several large merchants subsequently filed similar lawsuits seeking damages and injunctive relief. a negative decision in these lawsuits could subject mastercard to fines and/or damages and could have a significant adverse impact on the revenues of our new zealand members and on our overall business in new zealand. in australia, the reserve bank of australia ( rba ) enacted in 2002 regulations controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours, that do not regulate the merchant discount charged by proprietary end-to-end networks (such as those offered by american express or diners club), which have already benefited from these regulations. in 2007, the rba commenced a review of such regulations and, on september 26, 2008, the rba released its final conclusions. these indicate that the rba is willing to withdraw its regulations if mastercard and visa make certain undertakings regarding the future levels of their respective credit card interchange fees and other practices, including their honor all cards rules. if the undertakings are not made, the rba is considering imposing in 2009 additional regulations that could further reduce the domestic interchange fees of mastercard and visa credit card systems in australia. the effect of the undertakings or any such additional regulations could put mastercard at an even greater competitive disadvantage relative to competitors in australia that purportedly do not operate four-party systems, which could have a significant adverse impact on mastercard business in australia. on december 12, 2008, a banking enquiry, a special body created by the south africa competition commission ( sacc ) to examine the payments industry in south africa, including interchange fees, published a report of its findings. the enquiry recommended, among other things, that an independent forum under regulatory control be established to set payment card interchange fees in south africa and that payment systems (including mastercard s) respective honor all cards rules be modified to give merchants greater freedom to choose which types of cards to accept. the enquiry report is non-binding but is under active consideration by south african regulators. if adopted, the enquiry recommendations could have a significant adverse impact on mastercard business in south africa. in october 2008, the south african national assembly (the na ) adopted amendments to that country competition laws concerning so-called complex monopolies and criminalizing violations of those laws (the bill ). on january 29, 2009, the president of south africa referred the bill back to the national assembly for further consideration and, recently, indicated that he may submit the bill to that country constitutional court for examination if the na fails to act on his request. if the bill is ultimately determined to be constitutional and becomes law, it could have a significant adverse impact on mastercard business in south africa. in january 2006, a german retailers association filed a complaint with the federal cartel office in germany concerning our (and visa s) domestic interchange fees. the complaint alleges that our (and visa s) german domestic interchange fees are not transparent to merchants and include so-called extraneous costs. mastercard understands that the federal cartel office is continuing to review the complaint. on january 31, 2008, the hungarian competition authority commenced a formal investigation of mastercard europe domestic interchange fees in hungary. 27 table of contents interchange fees and/or related practices (such as the honor all cards rule) are also being reviewed in a number of other jurisdictions, including brazil, colombia, czech republic, mexico, venezuela, estonia, israel, italy, norway, portugal, switzerland and turkey. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a coordinated approach to interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. in the united states, interchange fees have also been the topic of increased congressional and regulatory interest. in 2008, legislation concerning interchange, entitled the credit card fair fee act of 2008 , was introduced in the u.s. house of representatives. the house judiciary committee favorably reported this legislation, although on a divided vote, to the full house of representatives for further consideration. the house did not consider the legislation prior to adjourning. the version of the legislation ultimately reported by the house judiciary committee seeks to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively seek to lower their interchange costs by exempting such action from the u.s. antitrust laws. the credit card fair fee act also requires the u.s. department of justice to observe collective merchant negotiations with the company and its customer financial institutions (and separately with visa and its customer financial institutions) and report results of those negotiations back to the u.s. congress. similar legislation to the credit card fair fee act was introduced in the u.s. senate, but there were no hearings on, or further movement of, the legislation. additional interchange legislation was also introduced in the house in 2008, but there were no further developments with respect to such legislation. we expect that the credit card fair fee act, and other legislation pertaining to interchange, will be reintroduced in congress in 2009. it is not clear whether congress will act on such legislation, and what form any such legislation may ultimately take. in addition, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed approximately 50 class-action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard, visa and their member banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages in an unspecified amount, attorneys fees and injunctive relief. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, they may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers could also charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. if we are less successful than visa in defending interchange fees, we could also be competitively disadvantaged against visa. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, such regulation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. in addition, this could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. if the settlements of our currency conversion cases are not ultimately approved and we are unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for members. however, we are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in particular, a trial judge in california found that our currency conversion practice is deceptive under california state law, and ordered us to mandate that members disclose the currency conversion process to cardholders in cardholder agreements, applications, solicitations and monthly billing statements. the judge also ordered unspecified restitution to california cardholders. the decision 28 table of contents was reversed on appeal on grounds that plaintiff lacked standing to pursue his claims. in addition, we have been served with similar complaints in several state courts seeking to, in effect, extend the judge decision to mastercard cardholders outside of california. we have succeeded in having several of these cases dismissed or transferred to the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york and combined with putative federal class actions. the class actions allege that our currency conversion practices violate federal antitrust laws. on july 20, 2006, mastercard and the other defendants in the federal class actions entered into agreements settling those cases and related matters, as well as the california state case. pursuant to the settlement agreements, mastercard has paid $72 million to be used for defendants settlement fund to settle the federal actions and $13 million to settle the california case. the settlement agreements are subject to final approval by the court and resolution of all appeals. if final approval of the settlement agreements is not granted and we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits or the state currency conversion cases, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. except with respect to currency conversion litigations and the california consumer state action discussed in note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. these limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the payments industry is generally the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and lead to decreased transaction volumes through our systems. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, our customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. for example, in 2002 mastercard became subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352(a) of the usa patriot act, which has required our customers and us 29 table of contents to create and implement comprehensive anti-money laundering programs. in india, the government appears poised to enact an anti-money laundering law that may impose requirements on payment systems, such as mastercards , and their customers. moreover, the indian payments and settlement systems act 2007 requires that payment system operators, such as mastercard, obtain authorization by february 2009 from the reserve bank of india ( rbi ) to operate a payments system and grants broad oversight authority to the rbi. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. we are also subject to regulations imposed by ofac. ofac regulations impose restrictions on financial transactions with cuba, burma/myanmar, iran and sudan and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. also cuba, iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. while mastercard has no business operations, subsidiaries or affiliated entities in these countries, a limited number of financial institutions are licensed by mastercard to issue cards or acquire merchant transactions in certain of these countries. mastercard takes measures to avoid transactions with persons and entities on the sdn list. however, it is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the sdn list may be processed through our payment system. it is possible that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. further, certain u.s. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. in addition, the federal trade commission and the federal banking agencies have issued a number of regulations implementing the fair and accurate credit transactions act, and at least one other regulation under this law is expected to be issued in 2009. once fully implemented, these regulations could have a material impact on our customers businesses by increasing costs of issuance and/or decreasing the ability of card issuers to set the price of credit. the board of governors of the federal reserve system (the federal reserve ), with two other federal banking agencies, have also recently issued a regulation pertaining to unfair or deceptive acts or practices pertaining to credit card practices (the udap rule ). the udap rule will make it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and it will significantly affect the pricing models of most credit card issuers. the udap rule could reduce credit availability, or increase the cost of credit to cardholders, possibly affecting mastercard transaction volume and revenues. the federal reserve has also issued a comprehensive revision to regulation z, which implements the truth in lending act. this regulation will have a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and could affect their account terms and business practices. in addition to the udap rule and the revision to regulation z, regulators and the u.s. congress have also increased their scrutiny of our customers pricing of credit and their underwriting standards. any legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to operate their credit card programs or price credit freely could result in reduced amounts of credit available to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our transaction volume and revenues. there is also increasing scrutiny of a number of other credit card practices, from which many of our customers derive significant revenue, by congress and governmental agencies. for example, in addition to scrutiny of interchange fees, the senate permanent subcommittee on investigations and other senate and house committees and subcommittees are likely to continue their consideration of a variety of our customers practices, including the methods used to calculate finance charges and allocate payments received from cardholders, and the methods by which default interest rates, late fees and over-the-credit-limit or overdraft fees are determined, imposed, and disclosed. the u.s. congress may also continue to examine possible changes to the bankruptcy code. these investigative efforts and other congressional activity could lead to legislation and/or regulation that could have a material impact on our customers businesses and our business if implemented. 30 table of contents any such legislative or regulatory restrictions on our customers ability to operate their credit card programs or to price credit freely could result in reduced revenue and increased costs for our customers, reduced amounts of credit available to consumers and, therefore, a potential reduction of our transaction volume and revenues. in october 2006, the u.s. congress enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is being implemented through a federal rulemaking process that was completed in december 2008. these federal rules will require us and our customers to implement compliance programs that could increase our costs and/or decrease our transaction volumes. in addition, the u.s. congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. some u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact our customers directly. these new requirements and developments may affect both us and our customers ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause them to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which would reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. our ability to compete effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries could be curtailed by government actions, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card providers or national payment processing providers to support domestic competitors or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. our efforts to effect change in countries where our access to the domestic payments segment is limited may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data use and security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and banking agency information safeguard requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission information safeguards rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in the united states, over the past several years a number of bills have been considered by congress and there have 31 table of contents been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. while no legislation was passed in 2008, congress is likely to continue to consider these issues which could result in legislation that would have an adverse impact on us and our customers. in addition, a number of states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. in the european union, the european parliament and council have passed the european directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. this directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. regulation of privacy and data use and security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. business risks unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. during 2008, unprecedented events occurred in the financial markets around the world resulting in distress in the credit environment, equity market volatility and government intervention. in particular, the economies of the united states and the united kingdom were significantly impacted by this economic turmoil, however it also impacted other economies around the world. some existing customers have gone bankrupt or have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by the government. many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted. as a result, our operating results have begun to be impacted, or could be negatively impacted, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults. constriction of consumer and business confidence may cause decreased spending. declining economies can change consumer spending behaviors; for example, a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on international travel patterns, which may decline. uncertainty and volatility in our customers businesses makes our estimates of revenues, rebates and incentives more difficult. as such, certain prepayments under customer business agreements may not be realizable. our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives. customers may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services. government intervention and/or investments in our financial institution customers may lead to the nationalization of those banking institutions or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. 32 table of contents our customers may default on their settlement obligations. see note 21 (settlement and travelers cheque risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for further discussion of our settlement exposure. our business and prospects, as well as our revenue and profitability, could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our financial institution customers. see consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in this item 1a of this report. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. our strategy is to grow our business by, among other things, focusing on our customers and entering into customized business agreements with customers around the globe. in the future, we may not be able to enter into such agreements on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly, may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone rapid consolidation, and, based on current economic conditions, we have seen this trend accelerate in 2008. we expect this trend to continue in the future. consolidation represents a competitive threat to us because our strategy contemplates entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments. recent consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for mastercard, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. 33 table of contents the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2008, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion, or 30%, of total revenue. no single customer generates 10% of total revenue. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. for instance, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 18 (obligations under litigation settlements) and note 20 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. in addition, some large merchants are supporting many of the legal and regulatory challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our prospects for future growth and our overall business, and thus our revenue. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate pricing discounts and other incentives from us and our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based systems, including credit, charge, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. see business competition in item 1 of this report. some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider 34 table of contents range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. among other companies in our industry, visa and discover have changed their ownership structures, which could result in them becoming stronger and more efficient companies within the global payments industry. in october 2007, visa completed its plan to restructure its organization through the creation of a new stock corporation, visa inc., owned by its current member financial institutions. as part of the reorganization, visa europe did not become a subsidiary of visa inc., but rather remained owned by various european member financial institutions. visa inc. completed its initial public offering in march 2008. in july 2007, discover began trading on the new york stock exchange as a publicly-traded company following its spin-off from morgan stanley. as publicly-owned companies, visa and discover, among other changes, may have enhanced access to the capital markets and may improve operating results, which could be used to enhance their competitive position. if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, then use of our programs and products could decline, which would have an adverse impact on our revenues. in the u.s., in 2008, american express and discover received approval to become bank holding companies. while bank holding companies are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, they also are eligible to request an investment from the u.s. government under the tarp and may be eligible for similar government programs in the future. american express announced in december 2008 that it had requested and was approved to receive a $3.39 billion investment from the u.s. government under the tarp, and discover announced in january 2009 that it had requested and was preliminarily approved to receive a $1.2 billion investment under the tarp. mastercard is not a bank holding company and is not eligible to receive such an investment. a tarp or similar investment could strengthen such competitors of mastercard. based on a final judgment in 2004 of our litigation with the u.s. department of justice concerning our former cpp, our customers are now permitted to issue general purpose credit or debit cards in the united states on any other general purpose card network (such as american express or discover). this may cause our customers to issue fewer cards with our brand and to enter into arrangements with our competitors to issue cards, thereby reducing the volume of transactions that we process and decreasing our revenues. a number of our large customers, including bank of america, citibank, hsbc, usaa and ge money, now issue or have announced that they will issue american express or discover-branded cards. accordingly, if our customers issue more competitor branded cards than mastercard branded cards, it may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenue and profitability. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end to end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four party payments systems such as ours. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. as a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems and payments in electronic commerce and for mobile devices. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. 35 table of contents we also expect that there may be changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby dis-intermediating mastercard. competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing, such as dynamic currency conversion services, which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own currency conversion processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. if we process fewer transactions or are forced to change our pricing or practices for our currency conversion processing because of competing dynamic currency conversion services or otherwise, our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. a significant portion of the revenue we earn outside the united states is generated from cross-border transactions, and a decline in cross-border business and leisure travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from fees for processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions. in addition, we charge relatively higher operations fees for settlement, authorization and switch fees on cross-border transactions. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. in particular, international geopolitical, economic and other conditions, including the threat of terrorism and outbreak of diseases could cause a decline in cross-border business and leisure travel, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain financial institutions have exclusive, or near exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to 36 table of contents cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. our business may be materially and adversely affected by the marketplace perception of our brands and reputation. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to mastercard-branded products is highly dependent upon the external perception of our company and industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business. if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. we believe that in recent years industry-wide offline and online debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all offline, signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions. we may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. consumers and merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. in addition, online, pin-based 37 table of contents transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. global political and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. in addition to the effects of general economic conditions, increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. also, as we are principally based in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal member or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard international is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not contractually obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, in order to maintain the integrity and acceptance of our brands. our estimated gross legal settlement exposure, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $24 billion as of december 31, 2008. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.5 billion which could be used to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of our largest customers on their peak day, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. moreover, during 2008, many of our financial institution customers were directly and adversely impacted by the unprecedented events that occurred in the financial markets and the economic turmoil that ensued around the world. these events present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure as of december 31, 2008, see note 21 (settlement and travelers cheque risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions as a result of fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. a disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers, such as at&amp;t, bt and orange, for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. 38 table of contents account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, and other third parties store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards bearing our brands. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. in 2007 and 2008, there were several high-profile account data compromise events involving merchant systems that process and store information related to credit and debit card transactions, which affected, and may potentially affect, millions of mastercard, visa, discover and american express cardholders. as a result, we may be subject to lawsuits in connection with data security breaches involving payment cards carrying our brands. if we are unsuccessful in defending lawsuits involving such data security breaches, we may be forced to pay damages, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit, or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, and damage to our reputation and financial damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which would reduce our revenue and income. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations. during 2008, approximately 52.8% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse 39 table of contents changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may evaluate or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, and have made certain recent acquisitions (including interests in joint ventures and other alliances), we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. if we do make such an acquisition, however, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in particular, the integration of any acquisition (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. in addition, to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our benefit plans. we provide certain retirement benefits to our u.s. employees through the mastercard accumulation plan (map), a qualified cash balance benefit plan. the pension protection act of 2006 provides that, from january 29, 2005 and on, cash balance plans should not be deemed inherently age discriminatory. in addition, all five of the u.s. circuits that have considered the question of whether cash balance plans are age discriminatory have held that cash balance plans do not violate the age discrimination provisions of erisa. however, should any other u.s. circuit resolve the issue differently, we may be required to amend the map and, like other u.s. companies with cash balance plans, may be exposed to claims from plan participants. these developments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. as of february 12, 2009, we had 98,514,196 outstanding shares of class a common stock of which 13,496,933 shares were owned by the foundation. under the terms of the donation, the foundation may sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. however, the foundation has obtained permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to ten years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the ten-year period. despite this permission to defer annual disbursements, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. in addition, the foundation will be permitted to sell all of the remaining shares held by it starting twenty years and eleven months after the consummation of the ipo. 40 table of contents in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of our class b common stock would be eligible, through conversion transactions in amounts and at times to be designated by the company, to convert their shares of class b common stock into shares of our class a common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent transfer or sale to an eligible holder, subject to annual aggregate and other limits. the company completed two such voluntary conversion programs during 2007 and one such program during 2008 and has announced that it expects to provide such a program in 2009. after may 31, 2010, holders of our class b common stock will have the option to convert all of their shares of class b common stock into shares of class a common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent sale to the public, without aggregate amounts or similar limitations. all of the shares of class a common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares will be freely tradable without restriction or registration under the securities act by persons other than our affiliates. these future sales, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations and have experienced increased volatility in connection with recent unpredictable economic events around the world. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: the continuation of unprecedented economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; changes in earning estimates, investors perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts earning estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation; potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and developments in our industry. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock, the class b common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, no member or former member of mastercard international, or any operator, member or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; up to three of our directors (but no more than one-quarter of all directors) are elected by the holders of our class m common stock; any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors; our directors, other than the directors elected by the holders of our class m common stock (who may be removed without cause by the holders of the class m common stock), may be removed only for cause 41 table of contents and only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class; our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; we have adopted limited liability provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors and the members of our european board for monetary damages for actions taken as a director or member, with certain exceptions; and a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws. a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. the foundation owns 13,496,933 shares of class a common stock, representing, as of february 12, 2009, approximately 14% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the ipo, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements starting on the fourth anniversary of the ipo. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our members. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors and to approve significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of our other stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to obtain the approval of the holders of our class m common stock, voting separately as a class, for a variety of enumerated actions. for example, the approval of the holders of our class m common stock is required to make certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation, to approve the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets, to approve the consummation of mergers or consolidations of mastercard or for us to cease to engage in the business of providing core network authorization, clearing and settlement services for branded payment card transactions. in addition, the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors. because shares of the class m common stock do not have any economic rights, the holders of the class m common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable for the holders of class a common stock, or their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. certain aspects of our european operations are managed by the european board which has been elected by the european holders of class m common stock and which may reach different decisions than our board of directors. certain aspects of our european operations, including review of membership applications, establishment of intraregional operating rules and implementation of certain intraregional product and enhancement developments and affinity and co-branding rules are managed by or under the direction of our european board. the european 42 table of contents board is elected by holders of our class m common stock who have their principal operations in europe, and consists of representatives of our european members. although our board of directors may, through a majority or a two-thirds vote depending on the circumstances, override decisions or temporarily assume any authority granted to the european board, the european board may reach different decisions than our board of directors would have reached on the same matter. our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by the board of directors, governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there were no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2008 as compared to december 31, 2007. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. u.s. dollar functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to purchase foreign currency $293 $22 $40 $ commitments to sell foreign currency 154 12 22 euro functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to sell foreign currency $66 $ $50 $ our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the typical one business day timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions and by confining the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of 16 other transaction currencies. the remaining 143 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. 74 table of contents interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company available for sale investments as of december 31 was as follows: maturity (in millions) financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2008 no contractual maturity 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and thereafter municipal bonds fixed interest $ 485 $ $ 16 $ 68 $ 112 $ 101 $ 89 $ 98 short-term bond funds fixed/variable interest 103 103 auction rate securities variable interest 192 192 other total $ 780 $ 103 $ 16 $ 68 $ 112 $ 101 $ 89 $ 290 maturity (in millions) financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2007 no contractual maturity 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and thereafter municipal bonds fixed interest $ 555 $ $ 14 $ 61 $ 122 $ 134 $ 103 $ 120 short-term bond funds fixed/variable interest 306 306 auction rate securities variable interest 348 348 other 99 99 total $ 1,308 $ 405 $ 14 $ 61 $ 122 $ 134 $ 103 $ 468 * note that amounts in the above table may not sum due to rounding at december 31, 2008, we had various credit facilities to provide liquidity in the event of material member settlement failures, settlement service operations and other operational needs. these credit facilities have variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in each agreement. we had no material borrowings at december 31, 2008 or 2007. see note 13 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this report for additional information. in addition, as of december 31, 2008, we had a 7.36% fixed short-term secured note for $149 million with a fair value of $155 million relating to the company variable interest entity, see note 15 (consolidation of variable interest entity) to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this report for additional information. equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2008. at december 31, 2007, mastercard investment in shares of redecard s.a. common stock, which was classified as an available-for-sale security was subject to equity price risk. at december 31, 2007, the effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market value would have been approximately $10 million. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 26 mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware stock corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through mastercard incorporated principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. our customers are generally either principal members of mastercard international, which participate directly in mastercard international business, or affiliate members of mastercard international, which participate indirectly in mastercard international business through a principal member. in may 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for mastercard incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the ipo )), which we refer to as the ownership and governance transactions and which included the appointment of a new board of directors comprised of a majority of directors who are independent from our customers. for more information about our capital structure, voting rights of our common stock, repurchases of our class a common stock and conversions of shares of our class b common stock into shares of our voting class a common stock, see note 16 (stockholders equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. 4 table of contents our industry we operate in the global payments industry, which consists of all forms of payment including: paper cash, personal checks, money orders, official checks, travelers checks and other paper-based means of transferring value; cards credit cards, charge cards, debit cards (including automated teller machine ( atm ) cards), pre-paid cards and other types of cards; and emerging and other forms of payment wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments, automated clearing house payments and payments using mobile devices, among others. the most common card-based forms of payment are general purpose cards, which are payment cards carrying logos that permit widespread usage of the cards within countries, regions or around the world. general purpose cards have different attributes depending on the type of accounts to which they are linked: pay later cards, such as credit or charge cards, typically access a credit account that either requires payment of the full balance within a specified period (a charge card) or that permits the cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit account (a credit card); pay now cards, such as debit cards, typically access a demand deposit or current account maintained by the cardholder; and pay before cards, such as prepaid or electronic purse cards, typically access a pool of value previously funded. generally, card-based forms of payment involve two types of transactions (depending on the type of card being used): transactions that typically require the cardholder signature, which are referred to as offline transactions; and transactions that require the cardholder to use a personal identification number ( pin ) for verification, which are typically referred to as online transactions. some purchase transactions outside of the united states, such as those made using cards equipped with a chip, can be pin-authenticated but are considered offline transactions. in addition, some payment cards are equipped with an rfid (radio frequency identification) microchip, which provides an advanced authentication technique, and technology which allows contactless payments requiring neither signature nor pin. many merchants no longer require a signature for low value purchases, and there is no pin or signature on internet or other card-not-present transactions. such transactions are still considered, however, to be offline transactions. the primary general purpose card brands include mastercard, visa &reg; , american express &reg; , jcb &reg; , diners club &reg; and discover &reg; . historically, these brands including mastercard were principally associated with pay later (credit or charge) cards in the united states and other major markets around the world. today, mastercard (as well as visa and others) may issue cards in the pay now and pay before categories as well. pay now cards may be further categorized into several sub-segments: signature-based debit cards are cards for which the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for the cardholder to sign a sales receipt (other than circumstances where an actual signature is not necessary). mastercard and visa-branded cards constitute the majority of signature-based debit cards. pin-based debit cards are cards with which cardholders generally enter a pin at a point-of-sale terminal for validation. pin-based debit card brands include our maestro brand and visa brands. the mastercard brand also functions as a pin-based debit brand in the united states. cash access cards are cards which permit cardholders to obtain cash principally at atms by entering a pin. the primary global cash access card brands are our cirrus brand and visa plus &reg; brand. 5 table of contents regional and domestic/local pin-based debit brands are the primary brands in many countries. in these markets, issuers have historically relied on the maestro and cirrus brands (and other brands) to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of the overall number of transactions. in addition to general purpose cards, private label cards comprise a portion of all card-based forms of payment. typically, private label cards are pay later cards issued by, or on behalf of, a merchant (such as a department store or gasoline retailer) and can be used only at the issuing merchant locations. payment services and solutions we provide transaction processing and other payment-related services to our customers. we also offer a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers to design, package and implement programs targeted to the specific needs of their customers (which include cardholders and commercial clients). we deploy customer relationship management teams to our customers to provide them with customized solutions built upon our expertise in payment programs, marketing, product development, payment processing technology and consulting and information services. we also manage and promote our brands for the benefit of all customers through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. we generate revenues from the fees we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services. we also earn revenues by charging our customers assessments based on the gdv of activity on the cards that carry our brands. accordingly, our revenues are impacted by the number of transactions that we process and by the use of cards carrying our brands. transaction processing introduction. we operate the mastercard worldwide network, which links issuers and acquirers around the globe for transaction processing services and, through them, permits mastercard cardholders to use their cards at millions of merchants worldwide. a typical transaction processed over our network involves four participants in addition to us: cardholder, merchant, issuer (the cardholder bank) and acquirer (the merchant bank). the following diagram depicts a typical point-of-sale card transaction. in a typical transaction, a cardholder (a) purchases goods or services from a merchant (b) using a card. after the transaction is authorized by the issuer (d) using our network, the acquirer (c) pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount, to the merchant. this discount, which we refer to as the merchant discount, takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee described below. the issuer pays the acquirer an amount equal to the value of the transaction minus any interchange fee and posts the transaction to the cardholder account. our rules generally guarantee the payment of transactions using mastercard-branded cards and certain transactions using cirrus and maestro-branded cards between issuers and acquirers. 6 table of contents in this four-party payment system, the economics of a payment transaction relative to mastercard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction or cash withdrawal, and whether the transaction is processed over our network or a third party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an on-us transaction). a significant portion of the merchant discount is generally paid from the acquirer to the issuer (or netted by the issuer against amounts paid to the acquirer) in the form of an interchange fee. the balance of the merchant discount is retained by the acquirer to cover its costs and profit margin. acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount. issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. as described below, we charge issuers and acquirers transaction-based and related fees and assessments for the services we provide them. interchange fees represent a sharing of a portion of payment system costs among our customers participating in four-party payment card systems. generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and passed to issuers (or netted by issuers against amounts paid to acquirers) to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants. in some circumstances, such as cash withdrawal transactions, this situation is reversed and interchange fees are paid by issuers. we establish default interchange fees that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer. we administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process; however, we do not earn revenues from them. as noted above, interchange fees are a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards and are currently subject to regulatory, legislative and/or legal challenges in a number of jurisdictions. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a. mastercard worldwide network . we facilitate the processing of transactions through the mastercard worldwide network, our proprietary, global payment network. our transaction processing capabilities include our core processing specifically, transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement) as well as many value-added payment processing services that extend our capabilities beyond switching in the payment value chain. the mastercard worldwide network is managed principally through our global technology and operations headquarters in o fallon, missouri. we process transactions through our network for approximately 23,000 financial institutions and other entities that are our customers through more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories. we believe the architecture of our network is unique, featuring a globally integrated structure which provides scalability for our customers and enables them to expand into regional and global markets. our network also features an intelligent architecture which enables it to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures distributed (peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke). transactions that require fast, reliable processing, such as those submitted using a mastercard paypass &reg; -enabled device in a tollway, use the network distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred. transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point of sale, or customization of transaction data for unique consumer spending controls, use the network centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction. typically operating at about 80% capacity, our network can handle more than 140 million transactions per hour with an average network response time of 140 milliseconds, and can substantially scale capacity to meet demand. our transaction processing services are available 24 hours per day, every day of the year. our global payment network provides multiple levels of back-up protection and related continuity procedures in the event of an outage should the issuer, acquirer or payment network experience a service interruption. to date, we have consistently maintained availability of our global processing systems in more than 99.9% of the time. 7 table of contents core processing capabilities. transaction switching authorization, clearing and settlement. mastercard provides transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement) through the mastercard worldwide network. authorization. authorization refers to the process by which a transaction is approved by the issuer or, in certain circumstances such as when the issuer systems are unavailable or cannot be contacted, by mastercard or others on behalf of the issuer in accordance with either the issuer instructions or applicable rules. for credit and offline debit transactions, the dual message system provides for the transmission of authorization requests and results among issuers, acquirers and other transaction processors or networks. for online debit transactions, the single message system switches financial messages and provides transaction and settlement reporting. our rules, which may vary across regions, establish the circumstances under which merchants and acquirers must seek authorization of transactions. clearing. clearing refers to the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a transaction has been completed. mastercard clears transactions among customers through our central and regional processing systems. credit and offline debit transactions using our branded cards are generally cleared via centralized processing through the global clearing management system and the related information is typically routed among customers via the mastercard worldwide network. for online debit transactions, the single message system performs clearing between customers and other debit transaction processing networks. mastercard clearing services can be managed with minimal system development, which has enabled us to accelerate our customers ability to develop customized programs and services. settlement. once transactions have been authorized and cleared, mastercard helps to settle the transactions by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. once clearing is completed, a daily reconciliation is provided to each customer involved in settlement, detailing the net amounts by clearing cycle and a final settlement position. the actual exchange of funds takes place between a clearing bank, designated by the customer and approved by mastercard, and a settlement bank chosen by mastercard. customer settlement occurs in u.s. dollars or in a limited number of other currencies in accordance with our established rules. cross-border and domestic processing. the mastercard worldwide network provides our customers with a flexible structure that enables them to provide processing across regions and for domestic markets. the network processes transactions throughout the world on our branded cards where the merchant country and cardholder country are different (cross-border transactions). mastercard also provides domestic transaction processing services to customers in every region of the world, which allow customers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants throughout a particular country. outside of the united states and a select number of other countries, however, most intra-country (as opposed to cross-border), domestic transaction activity conducted with our branded payment cards is authorized, cleared and/or settled by our customers or other processors without the involvement of the mastercard worldwide network. we continue to invest in our network and build relationships to expand opportunities for domestic transaction processing. in particular, the single european payment area ( sepa ) initiative creates a more open and competitive market in many european countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. as a result, in addition to cross-border transactions, mastercard now processes some domestic debit card services in nearly every sepa country. 8 table of contents expanded processing capabilities. in addition to transaction switching, we continually invest in ways to strategically expand our processing capabilities in the payment value chain. whether leveraging our own advanced processing expertise or forging strategic partnerships, we seek to provide our customers with an expanded suite of payment processing solutions that meet the unique processing needs of their market. examples include: mastercard integrated processing solutions (ips). in april 2008, we introduced mastercard integrated processing solutions ( ips ), a mastercard-engineered issuer processing platform. ips is designed to provide medium to large global issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. through a single processing platform, ips can, among other things, authorize debit and prepaid transactions, assist issuers in managing risk using fraud detection tools, manage the issuer card base, and manage and monitor the issuer atms. the proprietary mastercard portfolio viewer provides a user-friendly customer interface to ips, delivering aggregate cardholder intelligence across accounts and product lines to provide our customers with a view of information that can help them customize their products and programs. we continue to develop opportunities to further enhance our ips offerings and global presence. mobile payments gateway. in november 2009, mastercard introduced the mobile payments gateway in brazil. mobile payments gateway will be a turnkey mobile payment processing platform that facilitates transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions. strategic alliances . we have invested in strategic alliances to pursue opportunities in prepaid and acquirer processing. such alliances include prepay solutions, a joint venture with accor services which supports prepaid processing in europe, and strategic payment services, which provides acquirer processing in asia pacific. we will continue to evaluate additional opportunities to expand our capabilities through these types of strategic alliances. 9 table of contents gdv and processed transactions the tables below provide some information regarding two key drivers of our revenue: (1) gdv, which forms the basis of volume-based revenues, and (2) processed transactions. gdv. the gdv table below provides information regarding the gdv for all mastercard-branded cards (excluding cirrus and maestro) and for both mastercard credit and charge card programs and mastercard debit programs in the united states and in all of our other regions for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008. growth rates are provided on both a u.s. dollar and local currency basis for the periods indicated. gdv represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made and cash disbursements obtained with mastercard-branded cards and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks. year ended december 31, 2009 year-over-year growth u.s. $ local currency 2 year ended december 31, 2008 (in billions, except percentages) mastercard branded gdv 1 all mastercard branded programs asia/pacific/middle east/africa $ 484 14.6 % 17.9 % $ 422 canada 93 (8.8 ) (2.7 ) 102 europe 725 (6.5 ) 3.8 775 latin america 177 (3.8 ) 9.5 184 united states 976 (7.4 ) (7.4 ) 1,054 worldwide $ 2,454 (3.3 )% 1.4 % $ 2,537 all mastercard credit and charge programs united states $ 525 (16.8 )% (16.8 )% $ 631 worldwide less united states 1,115 (4.5 ) 3.5 1,167 worldwide $ 1,640 (8.8 )% (4.0 )% $ 1,799 all mastercard debit programs united states $ 450 6.5 % 6.5 % $ 423 worldwide less united states 364 15.4 26.2 316 worldwide $ 814 10.3 % 14.5 % $ 738 * note that figures in the above table may not sum due to rounding. 1 gdv generated by maestro and cirrus cards is not included. the data for gdv is provided by mastercard customers and includes information with respect to mastercard-branded transactions that are not processed by mastercard and for which mastercard does not earn significant revenues. all data is subject to revision and amendment by mastercard customers subsequent to the date of its release, which revisions and amendments may be material. 2 local currency growth eliminates the impact of currency fluctuations and represents local market performance. 10 table of contents processed transactions. the processed transaction table below provides information regarding all transactions processed by mastercard, regardless of brand, for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008 year ended december 31, 2009 year-over- year growth year ended december 31, 2008 (in millions, except percentages) processed transactions 1 22,410 6.9 % 20,954 1 data represents all transactions processed by mastercard, including pin-based online debit transactions, regardless of brand. the numbers were updated in 2009 to exclude a small number of certain processed transactions initiated with cards that do not bear our brands. all prior period data has been revised to be consistent with this revised methodology. revenue was not impacted by these changes. mastercard programs mastercard offers a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers to design, package and implement programs targeted to the specific needs of their customers (which include cardholders and commercial clients). our principal payment programs, which are facilitated through our brands, include consumer credit, debit and prepaid programs, commercial payment solutions and emerging technologies. our issuer customers determine the competitive features for the cards issued under our programs, including interest rates and fees. we determine other aspects of our card programs such as required services and marketing strategy in order to ensure consistency in connection with these programs. consumer credit and charge programs. mastercard offers a number of consumer credit and charge ( pay later ) programs that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. for the year ended december 31, 2009, our consumer credit and charge programs generated approximately $1.4 trillion in gdv globally, representing 59% of our total gdv for such year. as of december 31, 2009, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 675 million consumer credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 6.7% decline from december 31, 2008. united states . we offer customized programs to customers in the united states to address specific consumer segments. our consumer credit programs include standard (general purpose cards targeted to consumers with basic credit card needs), gold and platinum (cards featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying amount of enhancement services) and world and world elite mastercard &reg; (cards offered to affluent consumers which feature no required preset spending limit and a revolving option). regions outside of the united states. in addition to programs offered in the united states, mastercard makes available to customers outside of the united states a variety of consumer card programs in selected markets throughout the world. examples of such programs include mastercard electronic cards (which offer additional control and risk management features designed to curb fraud and control exposure in high risk markets) and cards targeted at affluent consumers (such as the mastercard black card in latin america, world and world signia mastercard &reg; cards in europe and world and titanium mastercard cards in asia/pacific, middle east and africa (apmea). general services. all mastercard credit cards include additional services, such as lost/stolen card reporting, emergency card replacement and emergency cash advance, which are generally arranged by mastercard and are provided through third-party service providers. consumer debit programs. mastercard supports a range of payment solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds on deposit in demand deposit and other accounts. our deposit access ( pay now ) programs may be branded with the mastercard, maestro and/or cirrus logo types, and can be 11 table of contents used to obtain cash in bank branches or at atms. in addition, mastercard and maestro-branded debit cards may be used to make purchases at the point of sale. debit products we offer include maestro and gold maestro, as well as standard, gold, platinum, premium and world debit mastercard products. mastercard-branded debit card programs. for the year ended december 31, 2009, our mastercard-branded debit programs generated approximately $814 billion in gdv globally, representing 33% of our total gdv for such year. as of december 31, 2009, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 262 million debit cards worldwide, representing 17.0% growth from december 31, 2008. mastercard-branded debit programs issue cards which include functionality for both signature and pin authenticated transactions, giving consumers a choice at the point of sale. mastercard-branded debit card programs are offered in the united states, and are also increasingly being introduced in europe, asia pacific and latin america as a complement to existing maestro-branded debit programs. maestro-branded debit card programs. maestro is our global online debit program. as of december 31, 2009, the maestro brand mark appeared on approximately 659 million cards worldwide, representing 2.0% growth from december 31, 2008. as of december 31, 2009, maestro was accepted for purchases at more than 12.1 million merchant locations globally. our maestro brand has a leading position among online debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in europe. the strong presence of maestro in europe positions us well as the sepa initiative creates a more open and competitive payment market in many european countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. the global acceptance of maestro contributes to the growth of our debit business and adds value to the services that we provide to our customers. mastercard global atm solutions. any debit, credit or atm accessible prepaid card bearing the mastercard, maestro or cirrus logos had access to cash and account information at approximately 1.7 million participating atms around the world as of december 31, 2009. mastercard global atm solutions provides domestic (in-country) and cross-border access to cards allowing for varied types of transactions, including cash withdrawal (deposit accounts), cash advance (credit accounts), cash drawdown (prepaid accounts), balance inquiries, account transfers and deposits at atms in the mastercard worldwide network. prepaid programs. prepaid ( pay before ) programs involve a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. holders access funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card. mastercard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands. mastercard provides processing services (including transaction switching) in support of either magnetic stripe or chip-enabled prepaid card programs. mastercard has capabilities to provide and customize programs to meet unique commercial and consumer needs in all prepaid segments, including programs such as gift, employee benefit, general purpose, payroll, travel, incentive and government disbursement programs. in particular, our strategy focuses on the top three spend categories: public sector, corporate (programs targeted to achieve to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions) and consumer reloadable (programs designed to provide access to underserved individuals who are not traditional users of credit or debit cards). commercial payment solutions. mastercard offers commercial payment solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and public sector organizations to streamline their payment processes, manage information and reduce administrative costs. in the year ended december 31, 2009, our commercial credit and charge programs generated approximately $192 billion in gdv globally, representing approximately 8% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2009, the mastercard-branded mark appeared on approximately 29 million commercial credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 6.2% decline from december 31, 2008. we offer various corporate payment products, including corporate cards, corporate premium cards, corporate purchasing cards and fleet cards (as well as the mastercard corporate multi card &reg; , which combines the functionality of one or more of these cards) that allow corporations to manage travel and entertainment expenses and provide corporations with additional transactional detail. we also offer public 12 table of contents sector entities a variety of payment programs that are similar to the travel, purchasing, fleet and multi card programs offered to corporations. the mastercard businesscard &reg; , the debit mastercard businesscard , the world mastercard for business and the world elite mastercard for business &reg; are targeted at the small-business segment, offering business owners the ability to gain access to working capital, to extend payments and to separate business expenses from personal expenses. mastercard also has developed programs that aim to facilitate paperless end-to-end corporate purchasing for organizations ranging from small businesses to large corporations. such programs include the mastercard payment gateway &reg; (processing payments between buyers, sellers and financial institutions), mastercard expensys &reg; (expense reporting), mastercard smart data (management reporting) and mastercard travel dashboard &reg; (travel and expenses reporting), as well as tools to facilitate integration into enterprise planning systems. emerging technologies. mastercard contributes to innovation in the payments industry through numerous initiatives, including developments in the areas of electronic commerce, smart cards, mobile commerce, person-to-person payments, corporate electronic payments, transit and emerging technologies. mastercard encourages new initiatives in the area of electronic commerce by researching and developing (or otherwise acquiring) a range of technologies designed to offer business opportunities to mastercard and our customers. mastercard manages smart card development by working with our customers to help them replace traditional payment cards relying solely on magnetic stripe technology with chip-enabled payment cards that offer additional point-of-sale functionality and the ability to provide value-added services to the cardholder. we are also involved in a number of organizations that facilitate the development and use of smart cards globally, including a smart cards standards organization with other participants in the industry that maintains standards and specifications designed to ensure interoperability and acceptance of chip-based payment applications on a worldwide basis. by working with customers and leading technology companies, mastercard also encourages new initiatives in the area of mobile commerce and wireless payment development such as contactless payment solutions (including mastercard paypass), mobile payment and payment-related information services and person-to-person transfers (including our money transfer program, mastercard moneysend ). in the area of corporate payments between buyers and suppliers, mastercard offers a payment processing platform supporting card and electronic funds transfer payments. we have also developed an innovative transit platform solution that leverages the contactless functionality in cards and other devices to enable mastercard acceptance in low-value, high-volume merchant environments. mastercard is also working to develop standards and programs that will allow consumers to conduct their financial transactions securely using a variety of new point-of-interaction devices. in addition, in december 2008, mastercard acquired orbiscom ltd., a leading payments solutions software provider for financial institutions. the acquisition builds on the existing partnership between mastercard and orbiscom that created mastercard incontrol , an innovative platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert controls designed to assist financial institutions in creating new and enhanced payment offerings. customer relationship management we are committed to providing our customers with coordinated services through integrated, dedicated account teams in a manner that allows us to take advantage of our expertise in payment programs, marketing, product development, technology, processing and consulting and information services. we have implemented an internal process to manage our relationships with our customers on a global and regional basis to ensure that their priorities are consistently identified and incorporated into our product, brand, processing, technology and related strategies. we enter into business agreements pursuant to which we offer customers financial incentives and other support benefits to issue and promote our branded cards. financial incentives may be based on gdv or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new cards, launch of new programs or execution of marketing initiatives. we believe that our business agreements with customers have contributed to our strong volume and revenue growth in recent years. in addition, we have standard licensing arrangements with all of our customers that permit them to use our trademarks and subject them to the rules governing our payment programs. 13 table of contents our mastercard advisors group serves to help differentiate us from our competitors by providing customers with a wide range of consulting and information services designed to help them improve the performance of their payments businesses. services include strategic consulting and strategy development, information and analytics, marketing management, and risk and operations management advice. mastercard advisors charges our customers and other clients fees for its professional services or may offer these services as an incentive under business agreements with certain customers. marketing we manage and promote our brands through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. our corporate brand, mastercard worldwide, reflects our three-tiered business model as franchisor, processor and advisor. our brand is supported by our corporate vision statement the heart of commerce , which represents our strategic vision of advancing commerce globally. our marketing activities combine advertising, sponsorships, promotions, customer marketing, interactive media and public relations as part of an integrated program designed to increase consumer awareness of mastercard and usage of mastercard cards. we also seek to tailor our global marketing messages by customizing them in individual countries, while maintaining a common global theme. our initiatives are designed to build the value of the mastercard brand and drive shareholder value. our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and loyalty among cardholders globally. our award-winning priceless &reg; advertising campaign has run in 51 languages in 110 countries. the priceless campaign promotes mastercard acceptance and usage benefits that permit cardholders to pay for what they need, when they need it as well as marketing mastercard credit, debit, prepaid and commercial products and solutions. it also provides mastercard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand positioning. we continue to support our brand by utilizing digital channels to allow us to engage more directly with our stakeholders and allow consumers and customers to engage directly in brand programs, promotions and merchant offers, as well as provide relevant information on mastercard products, services and tools. mastercard has also introduced global and regional specific smart phone applications that provide consumers with on-the-go utility. mastercard intends to continue to use digital channels to develop preference and usage with consumers and more effectively partner with customers and merchants to help them drive their respective businesses. we also seek to deliver value to our customers through sponsorship of a variety of sporting and entertainment properties. our presence in sports aligns with consumer segments important to mastercard and our customers. our worldwide partnerships in golf and rugby with the pga tour, pga european tour, 2010 ryder cup and rugby world cup 2011 are intended to help create business building opportunities among a more affluent demographic. we have a long-standing relationship with international soccer and have continued this relationship by sponsoring premiere events, including the union of european football associations champions league in europe, as well as two leading argentinean club teams. mastercard is also the exclusive payments sponsor to major league baseball and a number of its professional teams. we also sponsor individual teams in the national football league and national hockey league, as well as a leading cricket team in the indian premier league. in addition to our sports portfolio, we align ourselves with diverse properties aimed at multiple target audiences, including a fashion platform in our asia pacific region, with the intention of raising our brand awareness with affluent consumers. we also target a broad audience by providing access to music artists and live performances through well-known entertainment properties such as the grammy awards, jazz at lincoln center in new york, the brit awards and a partnership with cirque du soleil in russia. acceptance initiatives overview. we estimate that, as of december 31, 2009, cards carrying the mastercard brand were accepted at 29.9 million acceptance locations, including 1.7 million atms and 0.6 million other locations where cash may be obtained. information on atm and manual cash access locations is reported by our customers and is partly 14 table of contents based on publicly-available reports of payment industry associations, government agencies and independent market analysts in canada and the united states. cards bearing the maestro brand mark are accepted at many of these same locations. initiatives. we seek to maintain unsurpassed acceptance of mastercard-branded programs by focusing on three core initiatives. first, we seek to increase the categories of merchants that accept cards carrying our brands. we are focused on expanding acceptance in electronic and mobile commerce environments, quick service businesses (such as fast food restaurants), transportation, and public sector payments (such as those involving taxes, fees, fines and tolls), among other categories. second, we seek to increase the number of payment channels in which mastercard programs are accepted, such as by introducing mastercard acceptance in connection with bill payment applications. we are working with customers to encourage consumers to make bill payments in a variety of categories including rent, utilities and insurance with their mastercard-branded cards. third, we seek to increase usage of our programs at selected merchants by sponsoring a wide range of promotional programs on a global basis. we also enter into arrangements with selected merchants under which these merchants receive performance incentives for the increased use of mastercard-branded programs or indicate a preference for mastercard-branded programs when accepting payments from consumers. contactless payment solutions . our acceptance initiatives include mastercard paypass, a contactless payment solution that enables consumers simply to tap or wave their payment card or other payment device, such as a phone, key fob or wristband, on a specially-equipped terminal to complete a transaction. paypass utilizes radio frequency technology to securely transmit payment details wirelessly to the payment card terminals for processing through our network. our paypass program targets low value purchases and is designed to help our customers further expand their businesses by capturing a portion of transactions that were previously cash-based, resulting in increased card activity. paypass also reduces transaction times, which appeals to merchants in quick service businesses and allows us to expand the number of locations that accept our cards. paypass programs expanded in 2009 to include customers and merchants in 33 countries as of december 31, 2009, an increase from 28 countries as of december 31, 2008. as of december 31, 2009, more than 70 million paypass cards and devices were issued globally with acceptance at approximately 200,000 merchant locations worldwide. additional services. in addition, we provide research, marketing support and financial assistance to our customers and their marketing partners in connection with the launch and marketing of co-branded and affinity card programs. co-branded cards are payment cards bearing the logos or other insignia of an issuer and a marketing partner, such as an airline or retail merchant. affinity cards are similar to co-branded cards except that the issuer marketing partner is typically a charity, educational or other non-profit organization. merchants. merchants are an important constituency in the mastercard payment system and we are working to further develop our relationships with them. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. we believe that the growing role of merchants in the payments system represents both an opportunity and a challenge for mastercard. in particular, large merchants are supporting many of the legal, legislative and regulatory challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks and risk factors business risks merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability in part i, item 1a. nevertheless, we believe many opportunities exist to enhance our relationships with merchants and to continue to expand acceptance of our cards. over the years, for example, we have made available directly to merchants our rules that apply to card acceptance and related activities, thereby increasing the level of transparency and predictability of our payment system for merchants. we have also published the interchange rates applicable to merchants in the united states, have introduced a cap on interchange fees on fuel purchases at petroleum retailers and have published our entire set of operating rules on our website. as an additional example, we have an advisory group 15 table of contents which brings together merchants, acquirers, issuers and processors twice a year to examine payments innovation at the point of interaction, and to seek to enhance the experience for merchants and consumers at the point of sale or in an online shopping environment for a retail sales transaction. we also continue to develop our acquirer and merchant sales teams around the world. moreover, we have recently introduced a suite of information products, data analytics and marketing services which can help merchants understand specific activity in their industry, evaluate their sales performance against competitors and focus direct marketing efforts to target desirable prospects and hard to reach segments. mastercard revenue sources mastercard processes transactions denominated in more than 150 currencies through our global system, providing cardholders with the ability to utilize, and merchants to accept, mastercard cards across multiple country borders. for example, we may process a transaction in a merchant local currency; however the charge for the transaction would appear on the cardholder statement in the cardholder home currency. we process most of the cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and process the majority of mastercard-branded domestic transactions in the united states, united kingdom, canada, brazil and australia. mastercard generates revenues by charging fees to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on the dollar volume of activity on the cards that carry our brands. our net revenues are classified into the following five categories: domestic assessments: domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the volume of activity on mastercard and maestro-branded cards where the merchant country and the cardholder country are the same. a portion of these assessments is estimated based on aggregate transaction information collected from our systems and projected customer performance and are calculated by converting the aggregate volume of usage (purchases, cash disbursements, balance transfers and convenience checks) from local currency to the billing currency and then multiplying by the specific price. in addition, domestic assessments include items such as card assessments, which are fees charged on the number of cards issued or assessments for specific purposes, such as acceptance development or market development programs. acceptance development fees are charged primarily to u.s. issuers based on components of volume, and support our focus on developing merchant relationships and promoting acceptance at the point of sale. cross-border volume fees: cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the volume of activity on mastercard and maestro-branded cards where the merchant country and cardholder country are different. cross-border volume fees are calculated by converting the aggregate volume of usage (purchases and cash disbursements) from local currency to the billing currency and then multiplying by the specific price. cross-border volume fees also include fees, charged to issuers, for performing currency conversion services. transaction processing fees: transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and are primarily based on the number of transactions. these fees are calculated by multiplying the number and type of transactions by the specific price for each service. transaction processing fees include charges for transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement) and connectivity. other revenues: other revenues for other payment-related services are primarily dependent on the nature of the products or services provided to our customers but are also impacted by other factors, such as contractual agreements. examples of other revenues are fees associated with fraud products and services, cardholder service fees, consulting and research fees, compliance and penalty fees, account and transaction enhancement services, holograms and publications. 16 table of contents rebates and incentives (contra-revenue): rebates and incentives are provided to certain mastercard customers and are recorded as contra-revenue in the same period that performance occurs. performance periods vary depending on the type of rebate or incentive, including commitments to the agreement term, hurdles for volumes, transactions or issuance of new cards and the launch of new programs or the execution of marketing programs. rebates and incentives are calculated based on estimated performance, the timing of new and renewed agreements and the terms of the related business agreements. our pricing is complex and is dependent on the nature of the volumes, types of transactions and other products and services we offer to our customers. a combination of the following factors determines the pricing: domestic or cross-border signature-based or pin-based tiered pricing, with rates decreasing as customers meet incremental volume/transaction hurdles geographic region or country retail purchase or cash withdrawal cross-border transactions generate greater revenue than do domestic transactions. we review our pricing and implement pricing changes on an ongoing basis and expect pricing to continue to be a component of revenue growth in the future. in addition, standard pricing varies among our regional businesses, and such pricing can be customized further for our customers through incentive and rebate agreements. revenues from processing cross-border transactions fluctuate with cross-border activities. see risk factors business risks a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions in part i, item 1a. in 2009, net revenues from our five largest customers accounted for approximately $1.4 billion, or 28% of our total revenue. no single customer generated 10% of total revenue. membership standards we establish and enforce rules and standards surrounding membership in mastercard international and the use and acceptance of cards carrying our brands. rulemaking and enforcement membership in mastercard international and its affiliates is generally open to financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. applicants for membership must generally meet specified membership eligibility requirements. in general, mastercard grants licenses by territory to applicants able to perform all obligations required of members. licenses provide members with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of our brands. anti-money laundering due diligence reviews and customer risk management reviews are conducted on all new members prior to admission, as well as on existing members. all applicants and members must meet the requirements of mastercard anti-money laundering program, and mastercard can block authorization of transactions and ultimately terminate membership for non-compliance with the program. as a condition of our licenses, members agree to comply with our bylaws, policies, rules and operating regulations and procedures (the standards ). mastercard international and certain of its affiliates are the governing bodies that establish and enforce the standards, which relate to such matters as membership eligibility and financial soundness criteria; the standards, design and features of cards and card programs; the use of mastercard trademarks; merchant acquiring activities (including acceptance standards applicable to merchants); and guaranteed settlement and member failures. to help ensure that members conform to the standards, we review card programs proposed by members. 17 table of contents customer risk management as a guarantor of certain card obligations of principal members, we are exposed to member credit risk arising from the potential financial failure of any of our approximately 2,400 principal members of mastercard, maestro and cirrus, and approximately 3,500 affiliate debit licensees. our estimated gross settlement risk exposure for mastercard-branded transactions, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $26.4 billion as of december 31, 2009. principal members participate directly in mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate members (approximately 20,400). to minimize the contingent risk to mastercard of a failure, we monitor the financial health, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our rules and standards by, our principal members, affiliate debit licensees and other entities to which we grant licenses. if the financial condition of a member or the state of the economy in which it operates indicates that it may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us or other mastercard members or its payment obligations to mastercard merchants, we may require the member to post collateral, typically in the form of standby letters of credit, bank guarantees or secured cash accounts. as of december 31, 2009, we had members who had posted approximately $2.8 billion in collateral held for settlement exposure for mastercard-branded transactions. if a member becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us or other members, we are able to draw upon such member collateral, if provided, in order to minimize any potential loss to our members or ourselves. in addition to obtaining collateral from members, in situations where a member is potentially unable to meet its obligations to us or other members, we can block authorization and settlement of transactions and ultimately terminate membership. additionally, and to further preserve payment system integrity, mastercard reserves the right to terminate a member if, for example, the member fails or refuses to make payments in the ordinary course of business, or if a liquidating agent, conservator or receiver is appointed for the member. in addition to these measures, we have also established a $2.5 billion committed credit facility (which, by its terms, will decrease to $2.0 billion in april 2010 for the final year of the facility) for liquidity protection in the event of member settlement failure. see risk factors business risks as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal member and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations in part i, item 1a. see also risk factors business risks unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business in part i, item 1a. payment system integrity the integrity of our payment system can be affected by fraudulent activity and illegal uses of our system. fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or stolen account information, often resulting from security breaches of third party systems that inappropriately store cardholder account data. see risk factors business risks account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue in part i, item 1a. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as electronic commerce, mail order and telephone order transactions. security and cardholder authentication for these remote channels are particularly critical issues facing our customers and merchants who engage in these forms of commerce, where a signed cardholder sales receipt or the presence of the card or merchant agent is unavailable. we monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our rules and standards to combat fraudulent activity. we also operate several compliance programs to ensure that the integrity of our payment system is maintained by our customers and their agents. key compliance programs include merchant audits (for high fraud, excessive chargebacks and processing of illegal transactions) and security compliance (including our site data protection program, which assists customers and merchants in protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and 18 table of contents subsequent account data compromises by requiring proper adherence to the payment card industry (pci) data security standards). our customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so we can monitor trends and initiate action where appropriate. our customers are responsible for fraud losses associated with both the cards they issue and their merchants from whom they acquire transactions. however, we have implemented a series of programs and systems to aid them in detecting and preventing the fraudulent use of mastercard cards. we provide education programs and various risk management tools to help prevent fraud, including mastercard securecode &reg; , a global internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code, and our site data protection program. in addition, we offer several fraud detection and prevention solutions, including our expert monitoring solutions, a comprehensive suite of services designed to help our customers detect and prevent fraudulent activity. generally, we charge our customers fees for these antifraud programs and services. enterprise risk management mastercard faces a number of risks in operating its business. for a description of material risks, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. managing risk is an integral component of our business activities and the degree to which we manage risk is vital to our financial condition and profitability. we have an enterprise risk management ( erm ) program which is integrated with the business and designed to ensure appropriate and comprehensive oversight and management of risk. the erm program leverages our business processes to, among other things, ensure: allocation of resources to appropriately address risk; establishment of clear accountability for risk management; and provision of transparency of risks to senior management, the board of directors and appropriate board committees. our erm program seeks to accomplish these goals by: monitoring key risks; providing an independent view of our risk profile; and strengthening business operations by integrating erm principles and creating a more risk aware culture within mastercard. mastercard integrated risk management structure balances risk and return by having business units own and manage risk, centralized functions (such as finance and law) provide expertise and have responsibility for key risks, our executive officers set policy and accountability and the board and committees provide oversight of the process. intellectual property we own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including mastercard &reg; , maestro &reg; and cirrus &reg; , through one or more affiliates. we also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by mastercard to support our payment programs. through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. in addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. competition general. mastercard programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based payment systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. as a result of a global trend, electronic forms of payment such as payment cards are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment, and card brands such as mastercard, visa, american express and discover are benefiting from this displacement. however, cash and checks still capture the largest overall percentage of worldwide payment volume. 19 table of contents payment card, processing and alternative competitors. general purpose payment card industry. within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa (including plus, electron and interlink), american express and discover, among others. within the global general purpose card industry, visa has significantly greater volume than we do. outside of the united states, some of our competitors such as jcb in japan and china union pay &reg; have leading positions in their domestic markets. regulation can also play a role in determining competitive market advantages for competitors. for example, china union pay is the sole domestic processor designated by the chinese government and operates the sole national cross-bank bankcard information switch network in china due to local regulation. some governments, such as south africa and india, are promoting their domestic schemes (bankserv and india pay, respectively) and other countries are proposing similar legislation. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks government actions could curtail our ability to compete effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues in part i, item 1a. particular segments. we face competition with respect to particular segments of the payment card industry, including: debit. in the debit card sector, we also encounter substantial and increasingly intense competition from atm and point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as interlink , plus and visa electron (owned by visa inc.), star &reg; (owned by first data corporation), nyce &reg; (owned by fis), and pulse (owned by discover), in the united states, interac in canada and bankserv in south africa. in addition, in many countries outside the united states, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume. pin-based debit transactions. in the united states, some of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do. in addition, our business and revenues could be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based debit transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. in addition, online, pin-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other domestic atm/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. see risk factors business risks if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth in part i, item 1a. private-label. private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or another merchant, also serve as another form of competition. end-to-end payment networks. our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payment networks that have direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with cardholders, such as american express and discover. these competitors have certain advantages that we do not enjoy. among other things, these competitors do not require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs among issuers and acquirers, because they typically have direct relationships with both merchants and cardholders. interchange fees, which are a characteristic of four-party payments systems such as ours, are subject to increased regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a. to date, operators of end-to-end payment networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face because they do not utilize formal interchange fees. accordingly, these operators may enjoy a competitive advantage over four-party payments systems. 20 table of contents ownership structures. the ownership structures and regulatory designations of our competitors may provide those competitors with certain advantages with respect to mastercard. for example, american express and discover have become bank holding companies. while bank holding companies are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, in the past year, they also became eligible to request an investment from the u.s. government under the treasury department troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) and may be eligible to participate in other similar government programs (such as the term asset-backed securities loan facility ( talf )). mastercard is not a bank holding company and is not eligible to receive such an investment. a tarp or similar investment could strengthen these mastercard competitors. bank holding companies also may have a competitive advantage over mastercard by using their deposits as an available source of low-cost funding. other four-party systems . we compete intensely with other card networks, principally visa, for the loyalty of our customers. in most countries, including the united states, financial institutions typically issue both mastercard and visa-branded payment cards. as a result of this structure, known as duality, we compete with visa for business on the basis of individual card portfolios or programs. as to debit cards in the united states, visa historical debit exclusivity rule had meant that card issuers could issue either mastercard or visa debit cards, but not both. as a result of the litigation with the u.s. department of justice, however, visa debit exclusivity rule is no longer enforceable, and related litigation has been settled. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. these events have resulted in the potential for duality for debit cards, likely creating more opportunities to compete with visa for business in this area. transaction processors . we also face competition from transaction processors throughout the world, such as first data corporation and total system services, inc., some of which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment card transaction authorization and processing services. certain of these transaction processors could potentially displace mastercard as the provider of these payment processing services. new entrants and alternative payment systems . we also compete against relatively new entrants, such as paypal (a business segment of ebay), which have developed alternative payment systems and payments in electronic commerce and across mobile devices. while paypal remains the leader in online payments, this is an increasingly competitive area, as evidenced by the proliferation of new online competitors. among other services, these competitors provide internet payment services that can be used to buy and sell goods online, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts for internet, mobile commerce and other applications. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet and potential wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. in mobile commerce, we also face competition from established mobile network operators. whereas the mastercard approach to mobile commerce centers on the use of the consumer payment account as established by their card issuer, network operators may apply mobile consumer payments directly to the customer monthly bill or prepaid mobile account. litigation outcomes . ongoing litigation has affected, and may continue to affect, our ability to compete in the global payments industry. for example, under the settlement agreement in the u.s. merchant lawsuit in 2003, u.s. merchants now have the right to reject mastercard-branded debit cards issued in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, which may adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our debit business in the united states. in addition, as a result of the court decision in our litigation with the u.s. department of justice concerning our former u.s. competitive programs policy ( cpp ), our customers may now do business with american express or discover in the united states, which could adversely affect our business. in recent years, these competitors have started working with issuing and acquiring financial institutions, and thereby replicating certain aspects of end-to-end payment networks. a number of our large customers, including bank of america, citibank, barclays, hsbc, usaa and ge money now issue american express and/or discover-branded cards. see risk factors business risks our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry in part i, item 1a. 21 table of contents finally, suits against us have been filed in several state and federal courts because of our currency conversion practices. although we have settled these matters, the settlements are still subject to appeal and could be overturned. we cannot predict what the final outcome will be of our various litigations and other regulatory proceedings. for a description of these and other matters, see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. customers. pricing. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of rebates and incentives we provide to our customers and merchants, as we have in the last several years. we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our cards. however, our customers can terminate their business agreements with us in a variety of circumstances. see risk factors business risks we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in part i, item 1a. banking industry consolidation. the banking industry has recently undergone substantial accelerated consolidation, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. consolidation represents a competitive threat for mastercard because our business and pricing strategy is intended to enable mastercard to achieve targeted financial performance by providing incentives to customers for incremental business. furthermore, our business strategy contemplates entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments to mastercard. in recent years, consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a substantial loss of business for mastercard. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which generally have a greater ability to negotiate pricing discounts with mastercard. consolidations could prompt our customers to renegotiate our business agreements to obtain more favorable terms. this pressure on the prices we charge our customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. see risk factors business risks consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in part i, item 1a. competitive position. we believe that the principal factors affecting our competitive position in the global payments industry are: pricing; customer relationships; the impact of existing and future litigation, legislation and government regulation; the impact of globalization and consolidation of financial institutions and merchants; the acceptance base, reputation and brand recognition of payment cards; the success and scope of marketing and promotional campaigns; the quality, security and integrity of transaction processing; the relative value of services and products offered; regulation and local laws; 22 table of contents the impact of consolidation in the banking industry; new market entrants; and the ability to develop and implement competitive new card programs, systems and technologies in both physical and virtual environments. government regulation general. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in the last several years. in particular, interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions, including in the european union and hungary (discussed below). furthermore, mastercard customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and elsewhere, and as a consequence mastercard is impacted by such regulations. certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council ( ffiec ) under its authority to examine financial institutions technology service providers. examinations by the ffiec cover areas such as data integrity and data security. in recent years, the u.s. federal banking regulators have adopted a series of regulatory measures affecting credit card payment terms and requiring more conservative accounting, greater risk management and in some cases higher capital requirements for bank credit card activities, particularly in the case of banks that focus on subprime cardholders. in addition, mastercard europe operates a retail payment system in europe and is subject to oversight by the national bank of belgium pursuant to standards published by the european central bank that are principally targeted at managing financial, legal and operations risk. in addition, aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy regulation in the united states, the european union and elsewhere, as well as regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. our customers in the united states are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. as part of their compliance with the requirements, each of our u.s. customers is expected to have a program in place for responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to customers. interchange. interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. such challenges include regulatory proceedings in the european union (by the european commission, as well as such european union member states as hungary) and elsewhere, and regulatory inquiries in the united states and other jurisdictions. interchange fees have also become the topic of increased legislative interest. for example, in the united states, legislation has been introduced seeking to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively seek to lower their payment card acceptance costs. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a and in note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. data protection and information security. in the united states, during the past several years, a number of bills have been considered by congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. congress continues to consider these issues, which could result 23 table of contents in legislation that would have an adverse impact on us and our customers. for example, the house of representatives has again passed comprehensive data security and data breach notification legislation that could impose additional regulatory burdens on us and our customers. similar legislation has not yet passed the senate in this congress, and it is not clear whether legislation of this type will be signed into law. in addition, a large number of u.s. states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. in europe, the european parliament and council passed the european directive 95/46/ec (the directive ) on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. the directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. the directive establishes general principles with regard to the processing of personal data, including the legal grounds for processing, the rights of individuals with regard to their personal data, restrictions on transfers of the personal data outside the european economic area, and the obligation of the controller of that information to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. anti-money laundering. mastercard and other participants in the payment industry are also subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352 of the usa patriot act, which applies to certain types of financial institutions, including operators of credit card systems. section 352 of the usa patriot act requires mastercard to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering program and imposes similar requirements on some of our customers. our anti-money laundering program must be reasonably designed to prevent our system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. the program must, at a minimum, include the designation of a compliance officer, provide for the training of appropriate personnel regarding anti-money laundering responsibilities, as well as incorporate policies, procedures, and controls to mitigate money laundering risks, and be independently audited. ofac and related regulations . we are also subject to regulations imposed by ofac. ofac regulations impose restrictions on financial transactions with cuba, burma/myanmar, iran and sudan and with persons and entities included in ofac list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). also cuba, iran, sudan and syria have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. while mastercard has no business operations, subsidiaries or affiliated entities in these countries, a limited number of financial institutions are licensed by mastercard to issue cards or acquire merchant transactions in certain of these countries. mastercard takes measures to avoid transactions with persons and entities on the sdn list, however, it is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the sdn list may be processed through our payment system. it is possible that our reputation may suffer due to our customer financial institutions association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. further, certain u.s. states have enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. issuer practice legislation and regulation. the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system is in the process of implementing the credit card act, which was signed into law in may 2009. the credit card act will have a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers account terms and business practices. the credit card act, and its implementing regulations, will make it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and will have a significant effect on the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major credit card issuers. the new law could reduce credit availability, or increase the cost of credit to cardholders, possibly affecting mastercard transaction volume and revenues. 24 table of contents the credit card act also includes provisions that impose limits and restrictions on certain prepaid (or pay before ) card products, including on fees. the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system has proposed implementing regulations with respect to these provisions. the statutory provisions and implementing regulations may diminish the attractiveness of these products to our customers and may consequently adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues. the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system has also recently adopted regulations regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. these regulations will have the effect of significantly reducing overdraft fees our customers may charge in connection with debit card programs. this may diminish the attractiveness of debit card programs to our customers and may adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues. financial industry regulation . in june 2009, the administration of the president of the united states proposed legislative language to create a consumer financial protection agency (the cfpa ), which could have significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. the house of representatives passed comprehensive financial regulatory reform legislation in december 2009, including provisions substantially similar to those originally introduced to create the cfpa. under the house-passed legislation, the cfpa proposed grant of authority is broad and not clearly defined. it is therefore not clear whether the cfpa would be authorized to regulate aspects of payment card network operations. the senate has not yet addressed this issue and it is therefore unclear what form any such legislation may ultimately take. in addition, in december 2009, the house financial services committee approved a bill that included provisions for the regulation of payment, clearing and settlement systems (determined by the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system to be systemically important ) that could impose upon such systems additional regulatory, reporting, examination or other obligations that may differ from existing legal requirements. these provisions were not included in the financial reform bill adopted by the house of representatives in december 2009, and it is unclear whether congress might act with respect to such provisions (either in another bill or on a stand alone basis) and, if so, whether mastercard would be deemed systematically important . however, the imposition of any additional regulatory or other obligations on mastercard could result in costly new compliance burdens that could negatively impact our business. regulation of internet transactions . in october 2006, the u.s. congress enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is being implemented through a federal rulemaking process that was completed in december 2008. compliance will be required by june 1, 2010, although congress may consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate internet gambling. these federal rules will require us and our customers to implement compliance programs that could increase our costs and/or decrease our transaction volumes. in addition, the u.s. congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. some u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. these new requirements and developments may affect our customers ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenue and revenue growth. 25 table of contents outside of the united states. regulators in several countries outside of the united states have become increasingly interested in payment issues beyond interchange fees, some of which have launched official proceedings into payment industry issues. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a. seasonality see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations seasonality in part ii, item 7 for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. financial information about geographic areas see note 24 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2009, we employed approximately 5,100 persons, of which approximately 1,800 were employed outside of the united states. we consider our relationship with employees to be good. website and sec reports the company internet address is www.mastercard.com. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant bank (the acquirer) to the cardholder bank (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated with our payment system cards. interchange fees, including our default interchange fees, are subject to increasingly intense litigation, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants in the united states, are seeking to reduce these fees through litigation, regulatory action and/or legislative action. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees. examples of regulatory proceedings or inquiries into interchange fees include: in the european union, in december 2007, the european commission issued a negative decision (which we have appealed to the general court of the european union) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. 26 table of contents in the united states, the department of justice and certain state attorney generals have issued information requests and demands to mastercard (and visa) concerning points of sale acceptance rules and interchange setting practices. in the united kingdom, in february 2007, the office of fair trading commenced a new investigation of our current u.k. credit card interchange fees and so-called immediate debit cards to determine whether such fees contravene u.k. and european union competition law. in poland, the polish office for protection of competition and consumers issued a decision that our interchange fees are unlawful under polish competition law, and imposed fines on our licensed financial institutions the decision was then reversed and all parties are appealing. in hungary, mastercard europe is appealing the hungarian competition authority december 2009 decision ruling that mastercard europe historic domestic interchange fees violate hungarian competition law and fining mastercard europe approximately us $2,600,000. in italy, in july 2009, the italian competition authority commenced a proceeding against mastercard and a number of its customers concerning mastercard europe italian domestic interchange fees. in australia, the reserve bank of australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours. in south africa, in december 2008, a special body created by the south africa competition commission published a non-binding report (under active consideration by south african regulators) recommending, among other things, having an independent forum under regulatory control set payment card interchange fees and modifications to payment systems (including mastercard s) respective honor all cards rules. in germany, in january 2006, a german retailers association filed a complaint with the german federal cartel office in germany alleging that our german domestic interchange fees are not transparent to merchants and include so called extraneous costs. in canada, in july 2009 the canadian competition bureau informed mastercard that it intends to review mastercard interchange fees and related rules, such as the honor all cards and no surcharge rules. interchange fees and/or related practices (such as the honor all cards rule) are also being reviewed in a number of other jurisdictions, including belgium, brazil, colombia, czech republic, estonia, france, israel, mexico, the netherlands, switzerland, turkey and venezuela. we believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a coordinated approach to interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. in addition to regulatory action, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that mastercard interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard and its member banks, and mastercard, visa and their member banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages, attorneys fees and injunctive relief. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. interchange fees also have been the topic of increased legislative interest. for example: in the united states, in june 2009, the credit card fair fee act was introduced in the u.s. house of representatives. this legislation seeks to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively seek to lower their payment card acceptance costs. such collective actions would be exempt from the 27 table of contents u.s. antitrust laws under this legislation. the credit card fair fee act would require the u.s. department of justice to observe collective merchant negotiations with the company and its customer financial institutions (and separately with visa and its customer financial institutions) and report results of those negotiations back to the u.s. congress. similar legislation was also introduced in the u.s. senate in june 2009, although the senate bill would go further than the credit card fair fee act by creating a government panel to establish the terms and conditions of payment card acceptance for those merchants who do not reach an agreement as a result of the antitrust exemption. a separate bill introduced in the house the credit card interchange fees act of 2009 prior to the credit card fair fee act would, among other things, prohibit the inclusion of certain provisions in payment card network rules ( e.g. , honor all cards) and direct the u.s. federal trade commission to prescribe regulations to ensure, among other things, that such rules are not unfair or deceptive to consumers and merchants. it is not clear whether congress will act on one or more of these bills, or other types of interchange initiatives, and what form any such legislation may ultimately take. in addition, pursuant to separate legislation, the general accountability office ( gao ) conducted a study on interchange and submitted the findings and conclusions of that study to congress. although the gao study did not recommend any legislative or regulatory changes pertaining to interchange, it is not clear what impact the study will have on the legislative debate. in hungary, in december 2009, legislation was adopted by the hungarian parliament limiting, as of march 2010, mastercard (and visa) debit, credit and other types of interchange fees at various levels, as well as merchant service charges. in february 2010, the hungarian parliament amended this legislation, which had the effect of repealing the limits on interchange fees and postponing the implementation of the limit on merchant service charges until may 2010. the president of hungary is expected to sign the amended legislation, and mastercard is considering whether to challenge it. in south africa, in february 2009, the south african national assembly (the national assembly ) adopted amendments to that country competition laws concerning so-called complex monopolies and criminalizing certain violations of those laws (the south africa bill ), which the president signed. if and when the south africa bill becomes effective, it could have a significant adverse impact on mastercard business in south africa. in canada, in june 2009, the canadian senate issued a report with the non-binding recommendations that debit interchange be set at zero for three years, merchant surcharging be permitted in canada and honor all cards rules be modified. in response, the canadian department of finance has proposed a voluntary code of conduct on related issues for payment card industry participants in canada. in brazil, in april 2009, the central bank of brazil (together with competition agencies in brazil) issued a report detailing their findings with respect to the retail payment system in brazil, including a finding that greater transparency was required in the setting of domestic interchange rates. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers also could charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. if we are less successful than visa in defending interchange fees, we also could be competitively disadvantaged against visa. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such regulation, legislation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, this could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. 28 table of contents if the approval of the settlements of our currency conversion cases is undermined by an appeal and we are unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for customers. however, we are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in july 2006, mastercard and other defendants in federal class actions related to these matters entered into agreements to settle or otherwise dispose of such matters. pursuant to the settlement agreements, mastercard has paid $72 million to be used for the defendants settlement fund to settle the federal actions and $13 million to settle state cases. while the federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to appeals. if an appeal is filed and we are unsuccessful in that appellate proceeding, the settlement agreements will terminate. if that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits or the state currency conversion cases, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. except as discussed in note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit in 2003, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. these limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has 29 table of contents increased significantly in the last several years. see business government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. examples of such regulation and related legislation include: anti-money laundering regulation, such as section 352(a) of the usa patriot act and an anti-money laundering law enacted in india (which imposes requirements on payment systems, such as mastercard s, and their customers). payment systems regulation, such as the indian payments and settlement systems act 2007, under which payment system operators, such as mastercard, operate under the authority and broad oversight of the reserve bank of india. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. regulations imposed by ofac, which impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. it is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the sdn list may be processed through our payment system, and that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. legislation enacted by certain u.s. states (and pending in other states) regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result of such legislation, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. issuer practices legislation and regulation, including the credit card act (which is being implemented by the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system), which will have a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers account terms and business practices by, among other things, making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and significantly affecting the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major credit card issuers. additional regulations include recently adopted regulations by the board of governors regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. financial industry regulation, such as the proposed cfpa (passed by the u.s. house of representatives), which could have significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products (although it is not clear whether the cfpa would be authorized to regulate aspects of payment card network operations). regulation of internet transactions, including legislation enacted by the u.s. congress (and applicable to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers) requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions, as well as various additional legislative and regulatory activities with respect to internet transactions which are being considered in the united states. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which would reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. 30 table of contents government actions could curtail our ability to compete effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries, such as russia and india, have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers to support them or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and banking agency information safeguard requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission information safeguards rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. in the united states, over the past several years a number of bills have been considered by congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. congress continues to consider these issues which could result in legislation that would have an adverse impact on us and our customers. for example, the united states house of representatives has again passed comprehensive data protection and information security legislation, as well as data breach notification legislation, which could impose additional regulatory burdens on us and our customers. similar legislation has not yet passed in the u.s. senate, and it is not clear whether legislation of this type will be signed into law. in addition, a large number of states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach, and several other states are considering similar legislation. in the european union, the european parliament and council have passed the european directive 95/46/ec on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. this directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. 31 table of contents business risks unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. the competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. unprecedented events which began during 2008 continued to impact the financial markets around the world, including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention. in particular, the economies of the united states and the united kingdom have continued to be significantly impacted by this economic turmoil, and it is also impacting other economies around the world. some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential changes in laws and regulations. many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted. mastercard financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis. the severity of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance that have historically been present. as a result, our revenue growth has been and may be negatively impacted, or we may be impacted, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors; for example, a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on cross border travel patterns, which may continue to change. constriction of consumer and business confidence such as in recessionary environments and those markets experiencing high unemployment may continue to cause decreased spending by cardholders. our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults. uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable. our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. our customers may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services. government intervention and/or investments in our customers may have potential negative effects on our business with those banking institutions or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. our customers may default on their settlement obligations. see note 22 (settlement and travelers cheque risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for further discussion of our settlement exposure. our business and prospects, as well as our revenue and profitability, could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. see consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in this part i, item 1a. 32 table of contents in addition, our business is subject to regulation in many countries. regulatory bodies may seek to impose rules and price controls on certain aspects of our business and the payments industry. for example, see note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, for a discussion of global interchange proceedings. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. see business competition in part i, item 1. within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover and jcb, among others. within the global general payment card industry, visa has significantly greater volume than we do, and has greater scale and market share, as well as strong brand recognition, which provides significant competitive advantages. moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by litigation outcomes. see business competition in part i, item 1. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end-to-end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. certain competitors may also hold competitive advantages as a result of their organizational structures. see business competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. as a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems and payments in electronic commerce and for mobile devices. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we also expect that there may be other changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby dis-intermediating mastercard. 33 table of contents competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. our strategy is to grow our business by, among other things, focusing on our customers and entering into customized business agreements with customers around the globe. in the future, we may not be able to enter into such agreements on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial accelerated consolidation, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. consolidation represents a competitive threat to us because our strategy contemplates entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments. recent consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for mastercard, which could 34 table of contents have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest significant customers, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2009, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion, or 28%, of total revenue. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. for instance, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 19 (obligations under litigation settlements) and note 21 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. in addition, some large merchants are supporting many of the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with 35 table of contents cross-border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu (such as h1n1), viruses (such as sars) and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly- exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with exclusive or nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from mastercard to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. 36 table of contents we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. our business may be materially and adversely affected by the marketplace perception of our brands and reputation. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of our company and industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory. moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business. if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. in recent years, industry-wide offline and online debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all offline, signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions. we may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. consumers and merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. in addition, online, pin-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. general economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. also, as we are principally based in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal member or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard international is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its 37 table of contents merchant payment obligations. our estimated mastercard-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $26 billion as of december 31, 2009. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.5 billion (which, by its terms, will decrease to $2.0 billion in april 2010 for the final year of the facility) which could be used to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. in the event that mastercard international effects a payment on behalf of a failed member, mastercard international may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from its members. subject to approval by our board of directors, such members may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of mastercard. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of our largest customers on their peak day, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. moreover, during 2009, many of our financial institution customers were directly and adversely impacted by the unprecedented events that occurred in the financial markets and the economic turmoil that ensued around the world. these events present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure as of december 31, 2009, see note 22 (settlement and travelers cheque risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions as a result of process or other technology malfunction, fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. a disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. our visibility in the global payments industry may also attract terrorists and hackers to attack our facilities or systems, leading to service interruptions, increased costs or data security compromises. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, and other third parties store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards bearing our brands. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. in recent years, there have been several high-profile account data compromise events involving merchants and third party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affected millions of mastercard, visa, discover and american express cardholders. as a result of such data security breaches, we may be subject to lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. while most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, in certain circumstances, we could be exposed to damage claims, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. 38 table of contents an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, and damage to our reputation and financial damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenue and income or limit our future growth. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our operations outside of the united states. during 2009, approximately 54.5% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. we may evaluate or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies. while we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, and have made certain recent acquisitions (including interests in joint ventures and other alliances), we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. if we do make such an acquisition, however, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a 39 table of contents result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in particular, the integration of any acquisition (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. in addition, to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. as of february 11, 2010, we had 110,441,542 outstanding shares of class a common stock of which 13,496,933 shares were owned by the mastercard foundation (the foundation ). under the terms of the donation, the foundation may sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. however, the foundation has obtained permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to ten years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the ten-year period. despite this permission to defer annual disbursements, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. in addition, the foundation will be permitted to sell all of the remaining shares held by it starting twenty years and eleven months after the consummation of the ipo. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of our class b common stock would be eligible, through conversion transactions in amounts and at times to be designated by the company, to convert their shares of class b common stock into shares of our class a common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent transfer or sale to an eligible holder, subject to annual aggregate amounts and other limits. the company has completed four such voluntary conversion programs, including one program in 2009. after may 31, 2010, holders of our class b common stock will have the option to convert all of their shares of class b common stock into shares of class a common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent sale to the public, without aggregate amounts or similar limitations. all of the shares of class a common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares will be freely tradable without restriction or registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates. these future sales, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations and have experienced increased volatility in connection with recent unpredictable economic events around the world. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: the continuation of unprecedented economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; 40 table of contents changes in earning estimates, investors perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts earning estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity; potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and developments in our industry. there are terms in our charter documents and under delaware law that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock, the class b common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, no member or former member of mastercard international, or any operator, member or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; up to three of our directors (but no more than one-quarter of all directors) are elected by the holders of our class m common stock; any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors; our directors, other than the directors elected by the holders of our class m common stock (who may be removed without cause by the holders of the class m common stock), may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class; our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; we have adopted limited liability provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors and the members of our european board for monetary damages for actions taken as a director or member, with certain exceptions; and a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws. 41 table of contents a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. the foundation owns 13,496,933 shares of class a common stock, representing, as of february 11, 2010, approximately 12% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the ipo, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements starting on the fourth anniversary of the ipo. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our members. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors and to approve significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of our other stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to obtain the approval of the holders of our class m common stock, voting separately as a class, for a variety of enumerated actions. for example, the approval of the holders of our class m common stock is required to make certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation, to approve the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets, to approve the consummation of mergers or consolidations of mastercard or for us to cease to engage in the business of providing core network authorization, clearing and settlement services for branded payment card transactions. in addition, the holders of our class m common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors. because shares of the class m common stock do not have any economic rights, the holders of the class m common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable for the holders of class a common stock, or their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class a common stock. our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. 42 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies, which have been approved by the board of directors, governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there were no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2009 as compared to december 31, 2008. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward exchange contracts to minimize risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is 69 table of contents to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward currency contracts are generally less than 18 months. u.s. dollar functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 38 $ $ 293 $ 22 commitments to sell foreign currency 50 (1 ) 154 12 euro functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 16 $ $ $ commitments to sell foreign currency 45 66 our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the typical one business day timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions and by confining the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of 16 other transaction currencies. the remaining 136 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our debt instruments, which we hold as available-for-sale investments. with respect to fixed maturities, our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company available for sale investments as of december 31 was as follows: maturity (in millions) financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2009 no contractual maturity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter municipal bonds fixed interest $ 514 $ $ 28 $ 97 $ 96 $ 120 $ 80 $ 93 short-term bond funds fixed/variable interest 310 310 auction rate securities variable interest 180 180 total $ 1,004 $ 310 $ 28 $ 97 $ 96 $ 120 $ 80 $ 273 70 table of contents maturity (in millions) financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2008 no contractual maturity 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and thereafter municipal bonds fixed interest $ 485 $ 16 $ 68 $ 112 $ 101 $ 89 $ 98 short-term bond funds fixed/variable interest 103 103 auction rate securities variable interest 192 192 total $ 780 $ 103 $ 16 $ 68 $ 112 $ 101 $ 89 $ 290 * note that amounts in the above table may not sum due to rounding at december 31, 2009, we have a credit facility which provides liquidity in the event of material member settlement failures, settlement service operations and other operational needs. this credit facility has variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. we had no borrowings at december 31, 2009 or 2008. see note 14 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for additional information. equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2009 and 2008. 71 table of contentsrisk factors 26 mastercard incorporated was incorporated as a delaware stock corporation in may 2001. we conduct our business principally through mastercard incorporated principal operating subsidiary, mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard international ), a delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in november 1966. our customers are generally either principal members of mastercard international, which participate directly in mastercard international business, or affiliate members of mastercard international, which participate indirectly in mastercard international business through principal members. in may 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for mastercard incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the ipo )) which included the appointment of a new board of directors comprised of a majority of directors who are independent from our customers. for more information about our capital structure, voting rights of our class a common stock (our voting stock) and class b common stock (our non-voting stock) and conversions of shares of our class b common stock into shares of our voting class a common stock, see note 17 (stockholders equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. our industry we operate in the global payments industry, which consists of all forms of payment including: paper cash, personal checks, money orders, official checks, travelers cheques and other paper-based means of transferring value; cards credit cards, charge cards, debit cards (including automated teller machine ( atm ) cards), prepaid cards and other types of cards; and 5 table of contents emerging and other forms of payment wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments, automated clearing house payments, e-commerce payments and payments using mobile devices, among others. the most common card-based forms of payment are general purpose cards, which are payment cards carrying logos that permit widespread usage of the cards within countries, regions or around the world. general purpose cards have different attributes depending on the type of accounts to which they are linked: credit or charge cards typically access a credit account that either requires payment of the full balance within a specified period (a charge card) or that permits the cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit account (a credit card); debit cards typically access a checking, demand deposit or other current account maintained by the cardholder; and prepaid cards typically access previously funded monetary value. generally, card-based forms of payment involve two types of transactions (depending on the type of card being used): transactions that typically require the cardholder signature, which are referred to as offline transactions; and transactions that require the cardholder to use a personal identification number ( pin ) for verification, which are typically referred to as online transactions. some purchase transactions outside of the united states, such as those made using cards equipped with a chip, can be pin-authenticated but are considered offline transactions. in addition, some payment cards are equipped with an rfid (radio frequency identification) microchip, which provides an advanced authentication technique, and technology which allows contactless payments requiring neither signature nor pin under established transaction amounts. many merchants no longer require a signature for low value purchases, and there is no pin or signature on e-commerce or other card-not-present transactions. such transactions are still considered, however, to be offline transactions. the primary general purpose card brands include mastercard, visa &reg; , american express &reg; , jcb &reg; , diners club &reg; and discover &reg; . historically, these brands including mastercard were principally associated with credit or charge cards in the united states and other major markets around the world. today, debit and prepaid cards with mastercard brands (as well as the brands of visa and others) are issued as well. debit cards may be further categorized into several sub-segments: signature-based debit cards are cards for which the primary means of cardholder validation at the point of sale is for the cardholder to sign a sales receipt (other than circumstances where an actual signature is not necessary). pin-based debit cards are cards with which cardholders generally enter a pin at a point-of-sale terminal for validation. cash access cards are cards which permit cardholders to obtain cash principally at atms by entering a pin. regional and domestic/local pin-based debit brands are the primary brands in many countries. in these markets, issuers have historically relied on the maestro and cirrus brands (and other brands) to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of the overall number of transactions. in addition to general purpose cards, private label cards comprise a portion of all card-based forms of payment. typically, private label cards are credit cards issued by, or on behalf of, a merchant (such as a department store or gasoline retailer) and can be used only at the issuing merchant locations. 6 table of contents payment services and solutions we provide transaction processing and other payment-related services as well as a wide range of payment solutions to enable our customers to design, package and implement products and programs targeted to the specific needs of their customers (which include cardholders, businesses and governments). we work with customers to provide customized solutions, as well as more general solutions. our payment solutions are built upon our expertise in payment programs, product development, payment processing technology, consulting and information services and marketing. we also manage and promote our brands for the benefit of all customers through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. transaction processing on the mastercard worldwide network introduction. we operate the mastercard worldwide network, our proprietary, global payments network that links issuers and acquirers around the globe to facilitate the processing of transactions and, through them, permits mastercard cardholders to use their cards at millions of merchants worldwide. we process transactions through our network for financial institutions and other entities that are our customers, in more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories. typical transaction . a typical transaction processed over the mastercard worldwide network involves four participants in addition to us: cardholder, merchant, issuer (the cardholder financial institution) and acquirer (the merchant financial institution). the following diagram depicts a typical point-of-sale card transaction: in a typical transaction, a cardholder (a) purchases goods or services from a merchant (b) using a card or other payment device. after the transaction is authorized by the issuer (d) using our network, the issuer pays the acquirer (c) an amount equal to the value of the transaction, minus the interchange fee (described below), and posts the transaction to the cardholder account. the acquirer pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount, to the merchant (referred to as the merchant discount ). the merchant discount, among other things, takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee. our standards generally guarantee the payment of transactions using mastercard-branded cards and certain transactions using cirrus and maestro-branded cards between issuers and acquirers. interchange fees. the interchange fee is equal to the difference between the amount of the payment transaction (the transaction amount) and the amount the issuer pays the acquirer (the settlement amount). interchange fees represent a sharing of a portion of payment system costs among the customers participating in our four-party payment card system. as such, interchange fees are a key factor in balancing the costs consumers pay and the costs merchants pay. we do not earn revenues from interchange fees. generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and paid to issuers (or netted by issuers against amounts paid to acquirers) to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants. in some circumstances, such as cash withdrawal transactions, this 7 table of contents situation is reversed and interchange fees are paid by issuers to acquirers. we establish default interchange fees that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer. we administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process. interchange fees can be a significant component of the merchant discount, and therefore of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. these fees are currently subject to regulatory, legislative and/or legal challenges in a number of jurisdictions. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees and to the other legal and regulatory challenges we face. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a. merchant discount. the merchant discount is established by the acquirer to cover its costs and profit margin of participating in the four-party system. the discount takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer, and the balance of the discount either consists of fees established by the acquirer and paid by the merchant for certain of the acquirer services to the merchant (which are retained by the acquirer) or reflects the costs of such services. additional fees and economic considerations. acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount. issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit. as described below, we charge issuers and acquirers transaction-based and related fees for the transaction processing and related services we provide them. in a four-party payment system, the economics of a payment transaction relative to mastercard vary widely depending on such factors as whether the transaction is domestic (and, if it is domestic, the country in which it takes place) or cross-border, whether it is a point-of-sale purchase transaction or cash withdrawal, and whether the transaction is processed over our network or a third-party network or is handled solely by a financial institution that is both the acquirer for the merchant and the issuer to the cardholder (an on-us transaction). mastercard worldwide network architecture and operations . we believe the architecture of the mastercard worldwide network is unique, featuring a globally integrated structure that provides scalability for our customers and enables them to expand into regional and global markets. our network also features an intelligent architecture that enables it to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures distributed (peer-to-peer) and centralized (hub-and-spoke). transactions that require fast, reliable processing, such as those submitted using a mastercard paypass &reg; -enabled device in a tollway, use the network distributed processing structure, ensuring they are processed close to where the transaction occurred. transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point-of-sale, or customization of transaction data for unique consumer-spending controls, use the network centralized processing structure, ensuring advanced processing services are applied to the transaction. the network typically operates at under 80% capacity and can handle more than 160 million transactions per hour with an average network response time of 130 milliseconds. the network can also substantially scale capacity to meet demand. our transaction processing services are available 24 hours per day, every day of the year. our global payment network provides multiple levels of back-up protection and related continuity procedures in the event of an outage should the issuer, acquirer or payment network experience a service interruption. to date, we have consistently maintained availability of our global processing systems more than 99.9% of the time. processing capabilities. transaction switching authorization, clearing and settlement. mastercard provides transaction switching (authorization, clearing and settlement) through the mastercard worldwide network. authorization . authorization refers to the process by which a transaction is approved by the issuer or, in certain circumstances such as when the issuer systems are unavailable or cannot be contacted, by mastercard or others on behalf of the issuer in accordance with either the issuer instructions or applicable rules. for offline transactions (as well as online transactions in europe), the dual message system (which sends authorization and clearing messages separately) provides for 8 table of contents the transmission of authorization requests and results among issuers, acquirers and other transaction processors or networks. for online transactions (other than transactions in europe), the single message system (which sends authorization and clearing messages together) switches financial messages and provides transaction and settlement reporting. our standards, which may vary across regions, establish the circumstances under which merchants and acquirers must seek authorization of transactions. clearing . clearing refers to the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a transaction has been completed. mastercard clears transactions among customers through our central and regional processing systems. offline transactions using our branded cards are generally cleared via centralized processing through the global clearing management system and the related information is typically routed among customers via the mastercard worldwide network. for online transactions, the single message system performs clearing between customers and other debit transaction processing networks. mastercard clearing services can be managed with minimal system development, which has enabled us to accelerate our customers ability to develop customized programs and services. settlement . once transactions have been authorized and cleared, mastercard helps to settle the transactions by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties. once clearing is completed, a daily reconciliation is provided to each customer involved in settlement, detailing the net amounts by clearing cycle and a final settlement position. the actual exchange of funds takes place between a clearing bank, designated by the customer and approved by mastercard, and a settlement bank chosen by mastercard. customer settlement occurs in u.s. dollars or in a limited number of other currencies in accordance with our established rules. cross-border and domestic processing. the mastercard worldwide network provides our customers with a flexible structure that enables them to support processing across regions and for domestic markets. the network processes transactions throughout the world on our branded cards where the merchant country and cardholder country are different (cross-border transactions). mastercard processes transactions denominated in more than 150 currencies through our global system, providing cardholders with the ability to utilize, and merchants to accept, mastercard cards across multiple country borders. for example, we may process a transaction in a merchant local currency; however the charge for the transaction would appear on the cardholder statement in the cardholder home currency. mastercard also provides domestic (or intra-country) transaction processing services to customers in every region of the world, which allow customers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants throughout a particular country. we process most of the cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and, among our largest markets, process the majority of mastercard-branded domestic transactions in the united states, united kingdom, canada and brazil. outside of these and a select number of other countries, however, most intra-country (as opposed to cross-border) transaction activity conducted with our branded payment cards is authorized, cleared and/or settled by our customers or other processors without the involvement of the mastercard worldwide network. we continue to invest in our network and build relationships to expand opportunities for domestic transaction processing. in particular, the single european payment area ( sepa ) initiative creates an open and competitive market in many european countries that were previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. as a result, in addition to cross-border transactions, mastercard now processes some domestic debit card services in nearly every sepa country. extended processing capabilities. in addition to transaction switching, mastercard continually evaluates and invests in ways to strategically extend our processing capabilities in the payment value chain by seeking to provide our customers with an expanded suite of payment processing solutions that meet the unique processing needs of their markets. examples include: mastercard integrated processing solutions (ips). mastercard integrated processing solutions ( ips ) is a debit and prepaid issuer processing platform designed to provide medium to large global 9 table of contents issuing customers with a complete processing solution to help create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. through a single processing platform, ips can, among other things, authorize debit and prepaid transactions, assist issuers in managing risk using fraud detection tools, manage an issuer card base, and manage and monitor an issuer atms. the proprietary mastercard total portfolio viewer provides a user-friendly customer interface to ips, delivering aggregate cardholder intelligence across accounts and product lines to provide our customers with a view of information that can help them customize their products and programs. we continue to develop opportunities to further enhance our ips offerings and global presence. internet payment gateways . mastercard provides e-commerce processing solutions through internet payment gateways, which are interfaces between the merchant and its acquirer as a transaction moves to a payments network. our gateways include our mastercard internet gateway service (migs), which provides gateway infrastructure in asia pacific, and datacash, a european payment service provider which mastercard acquired in october 2010. datacash offers a single interface that provides e-commerce merchants with the ability to process secure payments across the world, and develops and provides outsourced electronic payments solutions, fraud prevention, alternative payment options, and other solutions. strategic alliances . we have invested in strategic alliances to pursue opportunities in prepaid and acquirer and third-party processing both through joint ventures and minority investments. these alliances include: (1) prepay solutions, a joint venture with edenred (previously named accor services) which supports prepaid processing in europe, (2) strategic payment services, which provides acquirer processing in asia pacific, (3) electracard services, which provides third-party processing services and software, as well as switching solutions, in asia pacific, the middle east and africa and (4) trevica, which provides third-party issuer processing services in poland and other central and eastern european markets. mastercard programs and solutions our principal payment programs and solutions, which are facilitated through our brands, include consumer credit and charge, debit and prepaid programs, commercial payment solutions and emerging payments solutions. our issuer customers determine the competitive features for the cards issued under our programs, including interest rates and fees. we determine other aspects of our card programs such as required services and the marketing strategy in order to ensure consistency in connection with these programs. consumer credit and charge. mastercard offers a number of consumer credit and charge programs that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. for the year ended december 31, 2010, our consumer credit and charge programs generated approximately $1.6 trillion in gdv globally, representing 57% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2010, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 648 million consumer credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 2.4% decline from december 31, 2009. united states . we offer customized programs to customers in the united states to address specific consumer segments. our consumer credit programs include standard (general purpose cards targeted to consumers with basic credit card needs), gold and platinum (cards featuring higher credit lines and spending limits and a varying level of enhanced services) and world and world elite mastercard &reg; (cards offered to affluent consumers which feature a wider range of enhanced services). regions outside of the united states. mastercard makes available to customers outside of the united states a variety of consumer card programs in selected markets throughout the world. examples of such programs include mastercard electronic cards (which offer additional control and risk management features designed to curb fraud and control exposure in high risk markets) and cards targeted to affluent consumers (such as platinum mastercard &reg; and mastercard black cards in latin america, world and world signia mastercard &reg; cards in europe, world and world elite mastercard &reg; cards in canada and platinum and world mastercard &reg; cards in asia/pacific, middle east and africa ( apmea )). 10 table of contents general services. all mastercard credit cards include services, such as lost/stolen card reporting, emergency card replacement and emergency cash advance, which are generally arranged by mastercard and are provided through third-party service providers. consumer debit. mastercard supports a range of payment solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds on deposit in demand deposit and other accounts. our debit and deposit access programs may be branded with the mastercard, maestro and/or cirrus logos, and can be used to obtain cash in bank branches or at atms. in addition, mastercard and maestro-branded debit cards may be used to make purchases or obtain cash back at the point of sale. debit programs we offer include maestro and gold maestro, as well as standard, gold, platinum, premium and world debit mastercard &reg; programs. mastercard-branded debit card. mastercard-branded debit programs issue cards which include functionality for signature authenticated transactions, as well as pin-based functionality, giving consumers a choice at the point of sale. for the year ended december 31, 2010, our mastercard-branded debit programs generated approximately $957 billion in gdv globally, representing 35% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2010, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 297 million debit cards worldwide, representing 15.8% growth from december 31, 2009. mastercard-branded debit card programs are offered in the united states, and are also increasingly being introduced in europe, asia pacific and latin america as a complement to existing maestro-branded debit programs. maestro-branded debit card. maestro is our global pin-based debit program, and is the only pin-based solution that operates globally. as of december 31, 2010, the maestro brand mark appeared on approximately 666 million cards worldwide, representing 2.2% growth from december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2010, maestro was accepted for purchases at more than 13.1 million merchant locations globally. our maestro brand has a leading position among pin-based debit brands in many markets throughout the world, particularly in europe. the strong presence of maestro in europe positions us well as the sepa initiative creates a more open and competitive payment market in many european countries that had been previously mandated to process domestic debit transactions with domestic processors. the global acceptance of maestro contributes to the growth of our debit business and adds value to the services that we provide to our customers. mastercard global atm solutions. cirrus is our primary global cash access brand. any debit, credit or atm-accessible prepaid card bearing the mastercard, maestro or cirrus logos had access to cash and account information at approximately 1.8 million participating atms around the world as of december 31, 2010. mastercard global atm solutions provides domestic (in-country) and cross-border access to cards allowing for varied types of transactions, including cash withdrawal (deposit accounts), cash advance (credit accounts), cash drawdown (prepaid accounts), balance inquiries, account transfers and deposits at atms that participate in the mastercard worldwide network. prepaid. prepaid programs involve a balance that is funded with monetary value prior to use. holders access funds via a traditional magnetic stripe or chip-enabled payment card which may leverage the paypass functionality or other payment devices, such as mobile devices. mastercard customers may implement prepaid payment programs using any of our brands. mastercard provides processing services (including transaction switching) in support of either magnetic stripe or chip-enabled prepaid card programs. mastercard has capabilities to provide and customize programs to meet unique commercial and consumer needs in all prepaid segments, including programs such as gift, employee benefit, general purpose, payroll, travel, incentive and government disbursement programs. in particular, our strategy focuses on three categories: public sector, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in government programs such as social security payments, unemployment compensation and others; corporate, which includes programs targeted to achieve cost savings and efficiencies by moving traditional paper disbursement methods to electronic solutions in business applications such as payroll, health savings accounts and others; and 11 table of contents consumer reloadable, which includes programs to address the payment needs of individuals without formal banking relationships, individuals who are not traditional users of credit or debit cards or individuals who want to compartmentalize funds for security or convenience purposes, such as travel. on december 9, 2010, mastercard announced its intention to acquire the prepaid card program management operations of travelex holdings ltd. during the first half of 2011. mastercard will acquire the travelex operations that manage and deliver consumer and corporate prepaid travel cards to business partners around the world, including financial institutions, retailers, travel agents and foreign exchange bureaus. the acquisition of these operations from travelex is an expansion for mastercard into program management services. combined with mastercard existing processing assets (such as ips) and other strategic alliances, the asset will augment and support partners and issuers of prepaid cards around the world, with a focus outside of the united states. the acquisition is intended to enable mastercard to offer end-to-end prepaid solutions encompassing branded switching, issuing processing and program management services, initially focused on the travel sector. commercial payment solutions. mastercard offers commercial payment solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and public sector organizations to streamline their payment processes, manage information and reduce administrative costs. in the year ended december 31, 2010, our commercial credit and charge programs generated approximately $211 billion in gdv globally, representing approximately 8% of our total gdv for this period. as of december 31, 2010, the mastercard brand mark appeared on approximately 30 million commercial credit and charge cards worldwide, representing a 5.0% increase from december 31, 2009. we offer various corporate payment programs and value-added services, including corporate cards, corporate premium cards, corporate purchasing cards and fleet cards (as well as the mastercard corporate multi card &reg; , which combines the functionality of one or more of these cards) that allow corporations to manage travel and entertainment expenses and provide corporations with additional transactional detail. we also offer public sector entities a variety of payment programs that are similar to the travel, purchasing, fleet and multi card programs offered to corporations. the mastercard businesscard &reg; , the debit mastercard businesscard , the world mastercard for business &reg; , the world elite mastercard for business &reg; , small business controller and professional debit and credit cards are targeted at the small-business segment, offering business owners the ability to gain access to working capital, to extend payments and to separate business expenses from personal expenses. emerging payments solutions. mastercard focuses on innovation to enhance our current programs and extend our products and services to new customers and into new geographies. our focus includes: e-commerce . e-commerce involves the secure purchase and sale of goods over the internet. our initiatives focus on: the development of e-commerce capability through internet payment gateways (including datacash, which was acquired in october 2010, and migs) to support growth in the e-commerce area, the development of programs and services intended to drive gdv and improve the consumer experience (such as mastercard marketplace , an internet-based program which provides eligible mastercard cardholders with individually tailored discount offers), and the development of tools to help customers prevent fraud over the internet. mobile . mastercard works with customers and leading technology companies to develop products and solutions in the area of mobile commerce and wireless payments. these initiatives generally focus on: contactless payment solutions (including mastercard paypass), which utilize radio frequency technology to securely transmit payment details wirelessly through payment devices (including mobile paypass tags that adhere to the back of a mobile device, as well as other devices described below under acceptance initiatives ) to contactless-enabled payment card terminals for processing through the mastercard worldwide network, 12 table of contents mobile payments gateways (such as the mastercard mobile payments gateway introduced by mastercard in brazil in 2009), which are turnkey mobile payment processing platforms that facilitate transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions, and person-to-person transfers (including mastercard money transfer solution, mastercard moneysend &reg; ) on behalf of mastercard customers using various channels, including mobile devices. value-added services . mastercard develops services designed to support and enhance its products and solutions. mastercard incontrol &reg; is an innovative platform featuring an array of advanced authorization, transaction routing and alert controls that uses the functionality of the mastercard worldwide network and is designed to assist financial institutions in creating new and enhanced payment offerings. mastercard offers several fraud detection and prevention solutions, including mastercard expert monitoring system ( ems ), a comprehensive suite of services designed to help its customers detect and prevent fraudulent activity. mastercard labs . mastercard labs is a global innovation group created in 2010 and dedicated to developing new innovative products and solutions for mastercard, our customers and our cardholders. mastercard labs enables us to take a portfolio approach to research and development by incubating new product concepts, building prototypes and running pilots. mastercard labs is designed for a rapid evaluation process, through which innovations either rapidly advance into mastercard new product process or are quickly disregarded. smart card and other development . mastercard continues to pursue smart card development, which enables mastercard to work with our customers to help them replace traditional payment cards relying solely on magnetic stripe technology with chip-enabled payment cards that offer additional point-of-sale functionality and the ability to provide value-added services to the cardholder. we are also involved in a number of organizations that facilitate the development and use of smart cards globally. this includes a smart cards standards organization with other participants in the industry that maintains standards and specifications designed to ensure interoperability and acceptance of chip-based payment applications on a worldwide basis. mastercard is also working to develop standards and programs that will allow consumers to conduct their financial transactions using a variety of new point-of-interaction devices. acceptance initiatives overview. we estimate that, as of december 31, 2010, cards carrying the mastercard brand were accepted at 31.7 million acceptance locations worldwide, including 1.8 million atms and 0.6 million other locations where cash may be obtained. information on atm and manual cash access locations is reported by our customers and is partly based on publicly-available reports of payment industry associations, government agencies and independent market analysts. cards bearing the maestro brand mark are accepted at many of these same locations. initiatives. we seek to maintain unsurpassed acceptance of mastercard-branded programs by focusing on three core initiatives. first, we seek to increase the categories of merchants that accept cards carrying our brands. in addition to our focus on expanding acceptance in e-commerce and mobile commerce environments, we are also focused on using the functionality of the mastercard worldwide network to expand acceptance in quick service businesses (such as fast food restaurants), transportation (such as commuter train systems, buses and taxis), and public sector payments (such as those involving taxes, fees, fines and tolls), among other categories. second, we seek to increase the number of payment channels in which mastercard programs are accepted, such as by introducing mastercard acceptance in connection with bill payment applications. we are working with customers to encourage consumers to make bill payments in a variety of categories including rent, utilities and insurance with their mastercard-branded cards. third, we seek to increase usage of our programs at selected 13 table of contents merchants by sponsoring a wide range of promotional programs on a global basis. we also enter into arrangements with selected merchants under which these merchants receive performance incentives for the increased use of mastercard-branded programs or indicating a preference for mastercard-branded programs when accepting payments from consumers. contactless payment solutions . our acceptance initiatives include mastercard paypass, a contactless payment solution that utilizes wireless technology to enable consumers simply to tap their payment card or other payment device, such as a phone, key fob, wristband or mobile paypass tag that adheres to the back of a mobile device on a paypass-enabled terminal to complete a transaction. our paypass program primarily targets low value purchases and is designed to help our customers further expand their businesses by capturing a portion of transactions that were previously cash-based, resulting in increased card activity. paypass reduces transaction times, which appeals to merchants in quick service businesses (i.e., ballparks, fast food restaurants and gas stations) and allows us to expand the number of locations that accept our cards. we have also developed an innovative transit platform solution to address the needs of various transit acceptance environments and cardholders. paypass programs expanded in 2010 to include customers and merchants in 36 countries as of december 31, 2010, an increase from 33 countries as of december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 88 million paypass cards and devices were issued globally with acceptance at approximately 276,000 merchant locations worldwide. additional services. in addition, we provide research, marketing support and financial assistance to our customers and their marketing partners in connection with the launch and marketing of co-branded and affinity card programs. co-branded cards are payment cards bearing the logos or other insignia of an issuer and a marketing partner, such as an airline or retail merchant. affinity cards are similar to co-branded cards except that the issuer marketing partner is typically a charitable, educational or other non-profit organization. merchants. merchants are an important constituency in the mastercard payment system and we are working to further develop our relationships with them. we believe that consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. we believe that the growing role of merchants in the payments system represents both an opportunity and a challenge for mastercard. in particular, large merchants are supporting many of the litigation, legislative and regulatory challenges related to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending against, since interchange fees can represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks and risk factors business risks merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability in part i, item 1a. nevertheless, we believe many opportunities exist to enhance our relationships with merchants and to continue to expand acceptance of our cards. over the years, for example, we have made available directly to merchants our standards that apply to card acceptance and related activities, thereby increasing the level of transparency and predictability of our payment system for merchants. we have also recently introduced a suite of information products, data analytics and marketing services which can help merchants understand specific activity in their industry, evaluate their sales performance against competitors and focus direct marketing efforts to target desirable prospects and hard to reach segments. customer relationship management we are committed to providing our customers with coordinated services in a manner that allows us to take advantage of our expertise in payment programs, product development, technology, operations, processing, consulting and information services and marketing. we manage our relationships with our customers on a global and regional basis to ensure that their priorities are consistently identified and incorporated into our product, brand, processing, technology and related strategies. 14 table of contents we enter into business agreements pursuant to which we offer customers financial incentives and other support benefits to issue and promote our branded cards and other payment programs. financial incentives may be based on gdv or other performance-based criteria, such as issuance of new cards, launch of new programs or execution of marketing initiatives. we believe that our business agreements with customers have contributed to our volume and revenue growth in recent years. in addition, we have standard licensing arrangements with all of our customers that permit them to use our trademarks and subject them to the standards governing our payment programs. mastercard advisors mastercard advisors is our global professional services group which is focused exclusively on the payments industry. it differentiates us from our competitors by providing our customers and other clients with services through three business lines: consulting services, information services, and managed services. consulting services delivers professional problem-solving skills with payments expertise to address the challenges and opportunities of customers with respect to their payments business. information services provides a suite of data analytics and products to a diversified customer base, enabling them to make better business decisions. managed services provides executional and turnkey solutions via data-driven acquisition and customer management services. mastercard advisors charges customers and other clients fees for its professional services or may offer these services as incentives under business agreements with certain customers. marketing we manage and promote our brands through brand advertising, promotional and interactive programs and sponsorship initiatives. our brand is supported by our corporate vision statement the heart of commerce &reg; , which represents our strategic vision of advancing commerce globally. our corporate brand, mastercard worldwide &reg; , is consistent with our role as franchisor, processor and advisor. our marketing activities combine advertising, sponsorships, promotions, customer marketing, interactive media and public relations as part of an integrated program designed to increase consumer awareness of the mastercard brand and usage of mastercard cards. we also seek to tailor our global marketing messages by customizing them in individual countries, while maintaining a common global theme. our initiatives are designed to build the value of the mastercard brand and drive shareholder value. our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall card preference among cardholders globally. our award-winning priceless &reg; advertising campaign has run in 52 languages in 112 countries worldwide. the priceless campaign promotes mastercard usage benefits and acceptance that permit cardholders to pay for what they need, when they need it as well as marketing mastercard credit, debit, prepaid and commercial products and solutions. it also provides mastercard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand positioning. we continue to support our brand by utilizing digital channels to allow us to engage more directly with our stakeholders and allow consumers and customers to engage directly in brand programs, promotions and merchant offers, as well as provide relevant information on mastercard products, services and tools. mastercard has also introduced global and regional specific smart phone applications, including mastercard atm hunter &reg; , priceless picks &reg; and mastercard marketplace overwhelming offers, that provide consumers with on-the-go utility. mastercard intends to continue to use digital channels and a variety of social media efforts to develop preference and usage with consumers and more effectively partner with customers and merchants to help them drive their respective businesses. we also seek to deliver value to our customers through sponsorship of a variety of sporting and entertainment properties. our presence in sports aligns with consumer segments important to mastercard and our customers. our worldwide partnerships in golf and rugby with the pga tour, pga european tour, 2010 ryder cup and rugby world cup 2011 are intended to help create business building opportunities among a more affluent demographic. we have a long-standing relationship with international soccer and have continued this 15 table of contents relationship by sponsoring premiere events, including the union of european football associations champions league in europe and the copa america 2011 tournament in argentina, as well as two leading argentinean club teams. mastercard is also the exclusive payments sponsor to major league baseball and a number of its professional teams. we also sponsor individual teams in the national football league and national hockey league, as well as a leading cricket team in the indian premier league. in china, mastercard sponsors the beijing wukesong culture and sports arena, one of the prominent olympic stadiums, which was recently renamed the mastercard center. in addition to our sports portfolio, we align ourselves with diverse properties aimed at multiple target audiences, including a fashion platform in our asia pacific region, with the intention of raising our brand awareness with affluent consumers. we target a broad audience by providing access to music artists and live performances through well-known entertainment properties such as the grammy awards &reg; , jazz at lincoln center in new york, the brit awards and partnerships with cirque du soleil in russia. mastercard is the official payment services partner of the walt disney company in europe, including with respect to disney stores, motion pictures and disneyland paris. mastercard revenue sources mastercard generates revenues by charging fees to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and assessing our customers based on gdv on the cards that carry our brands. accordingly, our revenues are impacted both by the number of transactions that we process and by the use of cards carrying our brands. our net revenues are classified into the following five categories: domestic assessments: domestic assessments are fees charged to issuers and acquirers based primarily on the volume of activity on cards that carry our brands where the merchant country and the cardholder country are the same. cross-border volume fees: cross-border volume fees are charged to issuers and acquirers based on the volume of activity on cards that carry our brands where the merchant country and cardholder country are different. transaction processing fees: transaction processing fees are charged for both domestic and cross-border transactions and are primarily based on the number of transactions. other revenues: other revenues for other payment-related services include fees associated with fraud products and services, cardholder service fees, consulting and research fees, compliance and penalty fees, account and transaction enhancement services, holograms and publications. rebates and incentives (contra-revenue): rebates and incentives are provided to certain mastercard customers and are recorded as contra-revenue in the same period that performance occurs. our pricing is complex and is dependent on the nature of the volumes, types of transactions and other products and services we offer to our customers. a combination of the following factors determines the pricing: domestic or cross-border signature-based or pin-based tiered pricing, with rates decreasing as customers meet incremental volume/transaction hurdles geographic region or country retail purchase or cash withdrawal cross-border transactions generate greater revenue than do domestic transactions. we review our pricing and implement pricing changes on an ongoing basis and expect pricing to continue to be a component of revenue growth in the future. in addition, standard pricing varies among our regional businesses, and such pricing can be customized further for our customers through incentive and rebate agreements. revenues from processing cross-border transactions fluctuate with cross-border activities. see risk factors business risks a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions in part i, item 1a. 16 table of contents in 2010, net revenues from our five largest customers accounted for approximately $1.5 billion, or 28% of our total revenue. no single customer generated greater than 10% of total revenue. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations revenues in part ii, item 7 for more detail. gdv and processed transactions the tables below provide some information regarding two key drivers of our revenue: (1) gdv, which forms the basis of volume-based revenues, and (2) processed transactions. gdv. the gdv table below provides information regarding the gdv for all mastercard-branded cards (excluding cirrus and maestro) and for both mastercard credit and charge card programs and mastercard debit programs in the united states and in all of our other regions for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009. growth rates are provided on both a u.s. dollar and local currency basis for the periods indicated. gdv represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made and cash disbursements obtained with mastercard-branded cards and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks. year ended december 31, 2010 year-over-year growth u.s. $ local currency 2 year ended december 31, 2009 (in billions, except percentages) mastercard branded gdv 1 all mastercard branded programs asia/pacific/middle east/africa $ 619 27.3 % 18.8 % $ 486 canada 107 14.9 % 4.2 % 93 europe 809 10.8 % 13.5 % 730 latin america 221 23.1 % 17.4 % 179 united states 972 (0.3 )% (0.3 )% 975 worldwide $ 2,727 10.7 % 9.1 % $ 2,463 all mastercard credit and charge programs united states $ 515 (2.0 )% (2.0 )% $ 526 worldwide less united states 1,255 12.9 % 10.0 % 1,112 worldwide $ 1,770 8.1 % 6.2 % $ 1,637 all mastercard debit programs united states $ 457 1.7 % 1.7 % $ 450 worldwide less united states 500 32.8 % 30.4 % 377 worldwide $ 957 15.9 % 14.9 % $ 826 * note that figures in the above table may not sum due to rounding. 1 gdv generated by maestro and cirrus cards is not included. the data for gdv is provided by mastercard customers and includes information with respect to mastercard-branded transactions that are not processed by mastercard and for which mastercard does not earn significant revenues. all data is subject to revision and amendment by mastercard customers subsequent to the date of its release, which revisions and amendments may be material. 2 local currency growth eliminates the impact of currency fluctuations and represents local market performance. 17 table of contents processed transactions. the processed transaction table below provides information regarding all transactions processed by mastercard, regardless of brand, for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 year ended december 31, 2010 year-over- year growth year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions, except percentages) processed transactions 1 23,052 2.9 % 22,401 1 data represents all transactions processed by mastercard, including pin-based online debit transactions, regardless of brand. the numbers were updated in 2009 to exclude a small number of certain processed transactions initiated with cards that do not bear our brands. all prior period data has been revised to be consistent with this revised methodology. revenue was not impacted by these changes. membership standards we establish and enforce our standards surrounding membership in mastercard international and the use and acceptance of cards carrying our brands. rulemaking and enforcement membership in mastercard international and its affiliates is generally open to financial institutions and other entities that are our customers. applicants for membership must generally meet specified membership eligibility requirements. in general, mastercard grants licenses by territory to applicants able to perform all obligations required of members. licenses provide members with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of our brands. anti-money laundering due diligence reviews and customer risk management reviews are conducted on all new members prior to admission, as well as on existing members. all applicants and members must meet the requirements of mastercard anti-money laundering program, and mastercard can block authorization of transactions and ultimately terminate membership for non-compliance with the program. as a condition of our licenses, members agree to comply with our standards, which include our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, policies, rules and operating regulations and procedures. mastercard international and certain of its affiliates are the governing bodies that establish and enforce our standards, which relate to such matters as membership eligibility and financial soundness criteria; the standards, design and features of cards and card programs; the use of mastercard trademarks; merchant acquiring activities (including acceptance standards applicable to merchants); and guaranteed settlement and member failures. to help ensure that members conform to the standards, we review card programs proposed by members. customer risk management as a guarantor of certain card obligations of principal members, we are exposed to member credit risk arising from the potential financial failure of any of our approximately 2,500 principal members of mastercard, maestro and cirrus, and approximately 3,400 affiliate debit licensees. our estimated gross settlement risk exposure for mastercard-branded transactions, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $28.5 billion as of december 31, 2010. principal members participate directly in mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate members (approximately 19,400). to minimize the contingent risk to mastercard of a failure, we monitor the financial health of, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our standards by, our principal members, affiliate debit licensees and other entities to which we grant licenses. if the financial condition of a member or the state of the economy in which it operates indicates that it may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us or to other 18 table of contents mastercard members or its payment obligations to mastercard merchants, we may require the member to post collateral, typically in the form of standby letters of credit, bank guarantees or secured cash accounts. as of december 31, 2010, we had members who had posted approximately $3.0 billion in collateral held for settlement exposure for mastercard-branded transactions. if a member becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us or other members, we are able to draw upon such member collateral, if provided, in order to minimize any potential loss to our members or ourselves. in addition to obtaining collateral from members, in situations where a member is potentially unable to meet its obligations to us or other members, we can block authorization and settlement of transactions and ultimately terminate membership. additionally, and to further preserve payment system integrity, mastercard reserves the right to terminate a member right to participate in mastercard payment card network if, for example, the member fails or refuses to make payments in the ordinary course of business, or if a liquidating agent, conservator or receiver is appointed for the member. in addition to these measures, we have also established a $2.75 billion committed credit facility to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of member settlement failure. see risk factors business risks as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations in part i, item 1a. see also risk factors business risks unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business in part i, item 1a. payment system integrity the integrity of our payment system can be affected by fraudulent activity and illegal uses of cards and our system. fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or stolen account information, often resulting from security breaches of third party systems that inappropriately store cardholder account data. see risk factors business risks account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue in part i, item 1a. fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as e-commerce, mail order and telephone order transactions. security and cardholder authentication for these remote channels are particularly critical issues facing our customers and merchants who engage in these forms of commerce, where a signed cardholder sales receipt or the presence of the card or merchant agent is unavailable. we monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our standards to combat fraudulent activity. we also operate several compliance programs to help ensure that the integrity of our payment system is maintained by our customers and their agents. key compliance programs include merchant audits (for high fraud, excessive chargebacks and processing of illegal transactions) and security compliance (including our mastercard site data protection service &reg; , which assists customers and merchants in protecting commercial sites from hacker intrusions and subsequent account data compromises) by requiring proper adherence to the payment card industry data security standards (pci dds). our customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so we can monitor trends and initiate action where appropriate. our customers generally are responsible for fraud losses associated with the cards they issue and the merchants from which they acquire transactions. however, we have implemented a series of programs and systems to aid them in detecting and preventing the fraudulent use of mastercard cards. we provide education programs and various risk management tools to help prevent fraud, including mastercard securecode &reg; , a global internet authentication solution that permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuer using a unique, personal code, and our site data protection program. we also provide fraud detection and prevention solutions, including ems and datacash fraud prevention tools. 19 table of contents enterprise risk management mastercard faces a number of risks in operating its business (for a description of material risks, see risk factors in part i, item 1a). managing risk is an integral component of our business activities and the degree to which we manage risk is vital to our financial condition and profitability. we have an enterprise risk management ( erm ) program which is integrated with the business and designed to ensure appropriate and comprehensive oversight and management of risk. the erm program leverages our business processes to, among other things, ensure: allocation of resources to appropriately address risk; establishment of clear accountability for risk management; and provision of transparency of risks to senior management, the board of directors and appropriate board committees. our erm program seeks to accomplish these goals by: identifying, prioritizing and monitoring key risks; providing an independent view of our risk profile; and strengthening business operations by integrating erm principles and continuing to create a risk aware culture within mastercard. mastercard integrated risk management structure balances risk and return by having business units and central functions (such as finance and law) identify, own and manage risks, our executive officers set policy and accountability and the board and committees provide oversight of the process. intellectual property we own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including mastercard &reg; , maestro &reg; and cirrus &reg; , through one or more affiliates. we also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by mastercard to support our payment programs. trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained. through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses. in addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. patents are of varying duration dcpending on the jurisdiction and filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term. competition general. mastercard programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); card-based payment systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards; and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. as a result of a global trend, electronic forms of payment such as payment cards are increasingly displacing paper forms of payment, and card brands such as mastercard, visa, american express and discover are benefiting from this displacement. however, cash and checks still capture the largest overall percentage of worldwide payment volume. payment card, processing and alternative competitors. general purpose payment card industry. within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa (including plus &reg; , electron and interlink), american express and discover, among others. within the global general purpose card industry, visa has significantly greater volume than we do. outside of the united states, some of our competitors such as jcb in japan and china union pay &reg; have leading positions in their domestic markets. regulation can also play a role in determining competitive market advantages for competitors. for example, china union pay is the sole domestic processor designated by the chinese government and operates the sole national cross-bank bankcard information switch network in china due to local regulation. some governments, such as india and russia, are promoting local networks for domestic processing and there are similar developments in other countries. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues in part i, item 1a. 20 table of contents particular segments. we face competition with respect to particular segments of the payment card industry, including: debit. in the debit card sector, we also encounter substantial and increasingly intense competition from atm and point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as interlink , plus and visa electron (owned by visa inc.), star &reg; (owned by first data corporation), nyce &reg; (owned by fis), and pulse (owned by discover), in the united states; interac in canada; eftpos in australia; and bankserv in south africa. in addition, in many countries outside of the united states, local debit brands serve as the main brands while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume. pin-based debit transactions. in the united states, some of our competitors process a greater number of online, pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do. in addition, our business and revenues could be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online, pin-based debit transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. this tendency may be accelerated as a result of the federal reserve implementation of rules associated with the wall street reform and consumer protection act (as defined and described below under government regulation ). in addition, online, pin-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other domestic atm/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. see risk factors business risks if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth in part i, item 1a. private-label. private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or other types of merchants, also serve as another form of competition. end-to-end payment networks. our competitors include operators of proprietary end-to-end payment networks that have direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with cardholders, such as american express and discover. these competitors have certain advantages that we do not enjoy. among other things, these competitors do not require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs among issuers and acquirers, because they typically have direct relationships with both merchants and cardholders. interchange fees, which are a characteristic of four-party payments systems such as ours, are subject to increased regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a. to date, operators of end-to-end payment networks have generally avoided the same regulatory and legislative scrutiny and litigation challenges we face because they do not utilize formal interchange fees. accordingly, these operators may enjoy a competitive advantage over four-party payments systems. competition for customer business . we compete intensely with other card networks, principally visa, for the loyalty of our customers. globally, financial institutions typically issue both mastercard and visa-branded payment cards, and we compete with visa for business on the basis of individual card portfolios or programs. some of our customers also do business with american express or discover in the united states, and a number of our large customers now issue american express and/or discover-branded cards. we also compete for new business partners with whom we seek to work, such as merchants, government agencies and telecommunication companies. see risk factors business risks our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry in part i, item 1a. our ability to compete in the global payments industry for customer business can be affected by the outcome of litigation, regulatory proceedings and legislative activity. for example, in july 2010, the united states enacted into law the 21 table of contents dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the wall street reform and consumer protection act ), which requires the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system to issue regulations prohibiting arrangements under which a debit card can be processed only by one network (or only by a group of affiliated networks). the wall street reform and consumer protection act also prohibits any restrictions on a merchant ability to route a transaction over any one of the networks that could process the transaction. these events have resulted in challenges, as well as potential opportunities to compete for business in this area. transaction processors . we face competition from transaction processors throughout the world, such as first data corporation and total system services, inc., some of which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment card transaction authorization and processing services. certain of these transaction processors could potentially displace mastercard as the provider of these payment processing services. new entrants and alternative payment systems . we also compete against relatively new entrants and alternative payment providers, such as paypal &reg; (a business segment of ebay), which have developed payment systems in e-commerce and across mobile devices. while paypal is an established and important player in internet payments, this is an increasingly competitive area, as evidenced by the proliferation of new online competitors. among other services, these competitors provide internet payment services that can be used to buy and sell goods online, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts for internet, mobile commerce and other applications. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet and potential wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. the payment card industry is also facing changes in services and technology related to mobile payments and emerging competition from mobile operators and handset manufacturers. micro-payments on social networks such as facebook &reg; are relatively small today but have the potential to grow rapidly, representing the potential for competition from a new payment form. financial institution customers. pricing. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers. we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of rebates and incentives we provide to our customers and merchants, as we have in the last several years. see risk factors business risks we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in part i, item 1a. banking industry consolidation. the banking industry has undergone substantial accelerated consolidation over the last several years, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. recent consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a substantial loss of business for mastercard. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which generally have a greater ability to negotiate pricing discounts with mastercard. consolidations could prompt our customers to renegotiate our business agreements to obtain more favorable terms. this pressure on the prices we charge our customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. see risk factors business risks additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability in part i, item 1a. 22 table of contents competitive position. we believe that the principal factors influencing our competitive position in the global payments industry are: pricing; customer relationships; the impact of existing and future litigation, legislation and government regulation; the impact of globalization and consolidation of financial institutions and merchants; the acceptance base, reputation and brand recognition of payment cards; the success and scope of marketing and promotional campaigns; the quality, security and integrity of transaction processing; the relative value of services and products offered; new market entrants; and the ability to develop and implement competitive new card programs, systems and technologies in both physical and virtual environments. government regulation general. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in the last several years, including in the united states. regulators in several countries outside of the united states have also become increasingly interested in payment issues, a number of which have launched official proceedings related to payment industry issues. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks in part i, item 1a. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payment systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. such challenges include regulatory proceedings in the european union (by the european commission, as well as by individual european union member states) and elsewhere. interchange fees have also become the subject of legislative action. in particular, the wall street reform and consumer protection act enacted into law in july 2010 provides for, among other things, the regulation of debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees directly and through an implementing rulemaking process undertaken by the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations and the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a and in note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy regulation in the united states, the european union and elsewhere, as well as regulations imposed by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). for example, in the united states, we and our customers are respectively subject to federal trade commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act. the federal trade commission information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. our customers in the united states are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. as part of their compliance with the requirements, each of our u.s. customers is expected to have a program in place for responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to customers. 23 table of contents in the united states, during the past several years, a number of bills have been considered by congress and there have been several congressional hearings to address information safeguarding and data breach issues. congress continues to consider these issues, which could result in legislation that would have an adverse impact on us and our customers. for example, the house of representatives has again passed comprehensive data security and data breach notification legislation that could impose additional regulatory burdens on us and our customers. similar legislation has not yet passed the senate in this congress, and it is not clear whether legislation of this type will be signed into law. in addition, a large number of u.s. states have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. in europe, the european parliament and council passed the european directive 95/46/ec (the directive ) on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. the directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in european union member states to which we and our customers are subject. the directive establishes general principles with regard to the processing of personal data, including the legal grounds for processing, the rights of individuals with regard to their personal data, restrictions on transfers of the personal data outside the european economic area, and the obligation of the controller of that information to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. in addition to the united states and europe, other jurisdictions around the world are enacting similar privacy, data protection and information security regulations which have similar impacts to our businesses in these jurisdictions. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/ or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs in part i, item 1a. anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism. mastercard and other participants in the payment industry are also subject to the regulatory requirements of section 352 of the usa patriot act, which applies to certain types of financial institutions, including operators of credit card systems. section 352 of the usa patriot act requires mastercard to maintain a comprehensive anti-money laundering program and imposes similar requirements on some of our customers. our anti-money laundering program must be reasonably designed to prevent our system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. the program must, at a minimum, include the designation of a compliance officer, provide for the training of appropriate personnel regarding anti-money laundering responsibilities, as well as incorporate policies, procedures, and controls to mitigate money laundering risks, and be independently audited. we are also subject to regulations imposed by ofac restricting financial transactions with cuba, burma/myanmar, iran and sudan and with persons and entities included in ofac list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons (the sdn list ). cuba, iran, sudan and syria also have been identified by the u.s. state department as terrorist-sponsoring states. while mastercard has no business operations, subsidiaries or affiliated entities in these countries, there are financial institutions licensed by mastercard to issue cards or acquire merchant transactions in certain of these countries. mastercard takes measures to avoid transactions with persons and entities on the sdn list; however, it is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the sdn list may be processed through our payment system. it is possible that our reputation may suffer due to our customer financial institutions association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. further, certain u.s. states have enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. as a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. financial industry regulation . mastercard customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and elsewhere, and as a consequence mastercard is impacted by such regulations. certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the u.s. federal financial institutions examination council ( ffiec ) under its authority to examine financial institutions technology 24 table of contents service providers. examinations by the ffiec cover areas such as data integrity and data security. in recent years, the u.s. federal banking regulators have adopted a series of regulatory measures affecting credit card payment terms and requiring more conservative accounting, greater risk management and in some cases higher capital requirements for bank credit card activities, particularly in the case of banks that focus on subprime cardholders. in addition, mastercard europe operates a retail payment system in europe and is subject to oversight by the national bank of belgium pursuant to standards published by the european central bank that are principally targeted at managing financial, legal and operations risk. in july 2010, as part of the wall street reform and consumer protection act, the bureau of consumer financial protection (the bureau ) was created. the bureau will have significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products, although it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the bureau will be authorized to regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations. in addition, the financial reform act created the financial stability oversight council (the council ) in order to identify risks to the financial stability of the united states that could arise from the material financial distress or failure of, or ongoing activities by, large, interconnected bank holding companies or nonbank financial companies. among other responsibilities, the council is tasked with identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems that are systemically important under the applicable statutory standard. under the wall street reform and consumer protection act, such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements. it is not clear whether mastercard would be deemed systemically important. however, the imposition of any additional regulatory or other obligations on mastercard could result in costly new compliance burdens that could negatively impact our business. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in part i, item 1a. issuer practice legislation and regulation. the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system is continuing the process of issuing regulations to implement the credit card act, which was signed into law in may 2009. the credit card act, and its implementing regulations, are having a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers account terms and business practices. the credit card act, and its implementing regulations, are making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and will have a significant effect on the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major credit card issuers. the new law could reduce credit availability, or increase the cost of credit to cardholders, possibly affecting mastercard transaction volume and revenues. the credit card act also includes provisions that impose limits and restrictions on certain prepaid card products, including on fees. the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system has issued implementing regulations with respect to these provisions. the statutory provisions and implementing regulations may diminish the attractiveness of these products to our customers and may consequently adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues. the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system has also recently adopted regulations regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. these regulations will have the effect of significantly reducing overdraft fees our customers may charge in connection with debit card programs. this may diminish the attractiveness of debit card programs to our customers and may adversely affect transaction volumes and revenues. regulation of internet transactions . in october 2006, the u.s. congress enacted legislation requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions. the legislation applies to payment system participants, including mastercard and our u.s. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation. compliance was required no later than june 1, 2010, although congress may consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate internet gambling. the federal regulation requires us and our customers to implement compliance programs that would increase our costs and/or could decrease our 25 table of contents transaction volumes. in addition, the u.s. congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers. some u.s. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. if implemented, these initiatives could require us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly. these new requirements and developments may affect our customers ability to extend credit through the use of payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. in some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our customers ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as prepaid cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenue and revenue growth. seasonality see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations seasonality in part ii, item 7 for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. financial information about geographic areas see note 25 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for certain geographic financial information. employees as of december 31, 2010, we employed approximately 5,600 persons, of which approximately 2,200 were employed outside of the united states. we consider our relationship with employees to be good. website and sec reports the company internet address is www.mastercard.com. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on our investor relations page, accessible through our corporate website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. item 1a. risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant financial institution (the acquirer) to the cardholder financial institution (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated on our payment system. we do not earn revenues from interchange fees. they are, however, a key factor in balancing the costs consumers pay and the costs merchants pay in our payment system. they are also a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process 26 table of contents over our network. although we have historically set default interchange fees in the united states and other countries, in certain jurisdictions, our interchange rates and related practices, including our default interchange fees, are subject to increased litigation and government regulation as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through litigation, regulatory action and/or legislative action. increased legislative scrutiny in the united states is resulting in limitations on our ability to establish default interchange rates for debit transactions. in july 2010, the united states enacted into law the wall street reform and consumer protection act that, among other things, requires debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in this part i, item 1a for more detail. interchange fees also have been the subject of legislative activity elsewhere, including: in france, in may 2009, the french parliament began considering a bill that would have regulated merchant discount fees. in october 2010, a substantially modified version of the bill was adopted, and was subsequently struck down by the french constitutional court in january 2011. in canada, in june 2009, the canadian senate issued a report with the non-binding recommendations that debit interchange be set at zero for three years, merchant surcharging be permitted in canada and honor all cards rules be modified. in response, the canadian department of finance implemented a voluntary code of conduct on related issues for payment card industry participants in canada, to which mastercard has agreed to abide. private member bills have also been introduced in the canadian senate that would attempt to establish legislative or regulatory controls over interchange and related practices in hungary, in december 2009, the hungarian parliament began considering a bill that would have regulated interchange fees and merchant discount rates. in february 2010, a modified bill was adopted which only regulated merchant discount rate, and the bill was subsequently effectively repealed in january 2011. in brazil, in may 2010, the central bank of brazil (together with competition agencies in brazil) issued a final report detailing their findings with respect to the retail payment system in brazil, including a finding that greater transparency was required in the setting of domestic interchange rates. in addition, regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions around the world have commenced proceedings or inquiries into interchange fees and related practices. examples include: in the european union, in december 2007, the european commission issued a negative decision (which we have appealed to the general court of the european union) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for consumer credit and debit cards under european union competition rules. in australia, the reserve bank of australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours. in the united kingdom, in february 2007, the office of fair trading commenced a new investigation (which has been suspended pending the outcome of our appeal of the european commission decision) of our current u.k. credit card interchange fees and so-called immediate debit cards to determine whether such fees contravene u.k. and european union competition law. in poland, in january 2007, the polish office for protection of competition and consumers issued a decision that our domestic interchange fees are unlawful under polish competition law, and imposed fines on our licensed financial institutions the decision is currently being appealed. 27 table of contents in hungary, in addition to the legislative activity described above, mastercard europe is appealing the hungarian competition office december 2009 decision (which has been stayed) ruling that mastercard europe historic domestic interchange fees violate hungarian competition law and fining mastercard europe approximately u.s. $3 million. in italy, mastercard europe is appealing the november 2010 decision of the italian competition authority ruling that mastercard europe domestic interchange fees violate european union competition law and fining mastercard 2.7 million euro. in canada, in addition to the legislative activity described above, in december 2010 the canadian competition bureau filed an application with the canadian competition tribunal to strike down rules related to mastercard interchange fees, including its honor all cards and no surcharge rules. in south africa, in september 2010, mastercard was informed by the south african reserve bank that it intended to appoint an independent consultant to make a recommendation on a simplified interchange structure for all payment systems in south africa. see note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees. we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks new regulations in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products in this part i, item 1a. additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. in the united states, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that mastercard interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. these suits allege, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among mastercard and its member banks, and mastercard, visa and their member banks in violation of section 1 of the sherman act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. the suits seek treble damages, attorneys fees and injunctive relief. see note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings. if issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. this could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. issuers also could charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. this could also result in less innovation and product offerings. we are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. the potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on mastercard relative to its competitors. if we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in mastercard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages. the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. the wall street reform and consumer protection act recently enacted in the united states establishes regulation and oversight by the u.s. federal reserve board of debit interchange rates and certain other network 28 table of contents industry practices. among other things, it requires debit and prepaid interchange transaction fees (referred to in the wall street reform and consumer protection act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. proposed regulations by the federal reserve provide two alternative proposals for determining whether a debit interchange fee complies with the reasonable and proportional standard. one alternative would impose a range for a per-transaction interchange fee and the other would impose a simple cap. in each case, the federal reserve proposed debit interchange limits are significantly below the interchange fees card issuers currently receive. provided certain conditions are met, the proposed regulations exempt from the proposed interchange fee restrictions the following: (1) issuers with assets of less than $10 billion; (2) debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered program; and (3) general use prepaid cards not marketed or labeled as gift cards. also, while the proposed regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the debit interchange fee restrictions. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations in this part i, item 1a. additionally, the wall street reform and consumer protection act provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive debit network arrangements or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit transactions. under alternative rules proposed by the federal reserve, either (1) a debit card would meet the requirements of the wall street reform and consumer protection act as long as it could be used in at least two unaffiliated networks, or (2) each debit card would be required to function in at least two unaffiliated networks for each method of authorization that the cardholder could use for transactions ( i.e. , two signature and/or two pin networks). the wall street reform and consumer protection act also created two new independent regulatory bodies in the financial reserve system. the bureau will have significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products, although it is not clear whether and/or to what extent the bureau will be authorized to regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations. the council is tasked, among other responsibilities, with identifying systemically important payment, clearing and settlement systems that will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements, although it is not clear whether mastercard would be deemed systemically important under the applicable statutory standard. if mastercard were deemed systemically important, it could be subject to new risk management regulations relating to its payment, clearing, and settlement activities. new regulations could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements. also, a systemically important payment system could be required to obtain prior approval from the u.s. board of governors of the federal reserve system or another federal agency for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payment system. these developments or actions could increase the cost of operating our business and may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, as well as consumers. this could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. if issuers, acquirers and/or merchants modify their business operations or otherwise take actions in response to this legislation which have the result of reducing the number of debit transactions we process or the network fees we collect, the wall street reform and consumer protection act could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. failure by our customers or by us to adjust our strategies successfully to compete in the new environment would increase this impact. 29 table of contents new regulations in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. this includes the interpretation of the recent wall street reform and consumer protection act and other regulatory and legislative activity relating to interchange. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. for example, regulations like those affecting debit payments could lead to regulations affecting credit and general use prepaid cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues in this part i, item 1a. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product. these include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. governments in certain countries, such as russia, ukraine and india, have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers. these governments may take this action to support these providers. they may also take this action to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. as an example, governments in certain countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies. such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers. our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. this could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. the payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues. we are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. in particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the united states and abroad, and, consequently, mastercard is at times affected by such regulations. regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years. see business government regulation in part i, item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation. in addition to the wall street reform and consumer protection act, examples include: anti-money laundering regulation, such as section 352(a) of the usa patriot act in the united states and an anti-money laundering law enacted in india (which imposes requirements on payment systems, such as mastercard s, and their customers). payment systems regulation, such as the indian payments and settlement systems act 2007, under which payment system operators, such as mastercard, operate under the authority and broad oversight of the reserve bank of india. increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional 30 table of contents obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. regulations imposed by ofac, which impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the sdn list. it is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the sdn list may be processed through our payment system, and that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. legislation, such as that enacted by certain u.s. states, regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states. as a result of such legislation, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price. issuer practices legislation and regulation, including the credit card act (which is being implemented through regulations issued by the board of governors of the united states federal reserve system), which are having a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers account terms and business practices by, among other things, making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and significantly affecting the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major credit card issuers. additional regulations include regulations by the board of governors regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with atm and debit card transactions. regulation of internet transactions, including legislation enacted by the u.s. congress (and applicable to payment system participants, including mastercard and our customers in the united states) requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of internet gambling transactions, as well as various additional legislative and regulatory activities with respect to internet transactions which are being considered in the united states. increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs. we and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations. recently, these topics have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the united states (at both the federal and state level), in europe and in other jurisdictions around the world. regulation of privacy and data protection and information security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards that they issue. any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation. 31 table of contents if the approval of the settlements of our currency conversion cases is undermined by an appeal and we are unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for customers. however, we are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. in july 2006, mastercard and other defendants in federal class actions related to these matters entered into agreements to settle or otherwise dispose of such matters. pursuant to the settlement agreements, mastercard has paid $72 million to be used for the defendants settlement fund to settle the federal actions and $13 million to settle state cases. while the federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to appeals. if an appeal is filed and we are unsuccessful in that appellate proceeding, the settlement agreements will terminate. if that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits or the state currency conversion cases, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. see note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. if we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. except as discussed in note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. we may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees. in addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. see note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the u.s. merchant lawsuit in 2003, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the united states while still accepting other mastercard-branded cards, and vice versa. see note 22 (legal and regulatory proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. these limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments. potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the united states, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate. see also note 21 (income tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. 32 table of contents business risks our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive. our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automated clearing house payments. within the global general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as visa, american express, discover and jcb, among others. visa has significantly greater volume than we do, and has greater scale and market share, as well as strong brand recognition, which provides significant competitive advantages. moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, regulatory proceedings and legislative activity. certain of our competitors, including american express, discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. these competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. for example, operators of end-to-end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. in addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. certain competitors may also hold competitive advantages as a result of their organizational structures. see business competition in part i, item 1. if we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. our customers can also develop their own competitive services. as a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. we also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems, e-commerce payment systems and payment systems for mobile devices. a number of these new entrants rely principally on the internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. we also expect that there may be other changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. for example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby dis-intermediating mastercard. rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of mastercard-branded cards. competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. 33 table of contents participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. we face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business, revenue and profitability. we generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. in order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our cards. in order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure. the demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. we may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. in addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. we may not succeed in these efforts. in the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry. some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. in addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for mastercard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. recent consolidations have included customers with a substantial mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for mastercard, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. in addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. the continued consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial mastercard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which mastercard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. this consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. 34 table of contents our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest significant customers, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. in addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. in 2010, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion, or 28%, of total revenue. loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. we rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards. consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope. we believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including mastercard. some large merchants are supporting many of the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that mastercard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards. see risk factors legal and regulatory risks interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. also see risk factors legal and regulatory risks the wall street reform and consumer protection act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. the increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings. merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards. as merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business. certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. in addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with exclusive or nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from mastercard to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. a significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. 35 table of contents we depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. if we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. we do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. in addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. as a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them. in turn, our customers success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. if our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. with the exception of the united states and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using mastercard, maestro and cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. if our customers actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the united states than we do. as a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. we rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs. although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. our business may be materially and adversely affected by the marketplace perception of our brands and reputation. our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. the ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of our company and industry. our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands. from time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as predatory. moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. social media channels can also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands. such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business. 36 table of contents if we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the united states, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. in recent years, industry-wide signature-based and pin-based debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions. however, in the united states, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. in addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of pin-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the united states. we may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the united states since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions (although this could be impacted by the federal reserve implementation of network exclusivity rules under the wall street reform and consumer protection act). we may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among u.s. consumers and merchants to migrate from signature-based debit transactions to pin-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. in addition, pin-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other atm/debit point-of-sale networks than by us. any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. the competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. unprecedented events which began during 2008 impacted the financial markets around the world, including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention. in particular, the economies of the united states and the united kingdom were significantly impacted by this economic turmoil, and it has also impacted other economies around the world. more recently, european countries including portugal, ireland, greece and spain have experienced downgrades in sovereign credit ratings by rating agencies, driven by fiscal challenges. some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments. many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations. many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted. mastercard financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis and the state of economic environments. the severity of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance that have historically been present. as a result, our revenue growth has been and may be negatively impacted, or we may be impacted, in several ways. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business environment in part ii, item 7 for a full discussion. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. a decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions. we process substantially all cross-border transactions using mastercard, maestro and cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees. revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with 37 table of contents cross-border travel and our customers need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions. these include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu (such as h1n1), viruses (such as sars) and other diseases. any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. general economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. the global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. general economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. also, as we are principally based in the united states, a negative perception of the united states could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth. as a guarantor of certain obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their mastercard, cirrus or maestro settlement obligations. we may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. if a principal member or affiliate debit licensee of mastercard international is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. in addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations. our estimated mastercard-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is calculated using the average daily card charges made during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $28.5 billion as of december 31, 2010. we have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.75 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. in the event that mastercard international effects a payment on behalf of a failed member, mastercard international may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from its members. subject to approval by our board of directors, members may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of mastercard. while we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by any of our largest customers on their peak day, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. moreover, during 2010, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by the unprecedented events in the financial markets which began during 2008 and the economic turmoil that has ensued around the world. these events present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees. for more information on our settlement exposure as of december 31, 2010, see note 23 (settlement and other risk management) to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8. if our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced. our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions as a result of process or other technology malfunction, fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. a disaster or other problem at 38 table of contents our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. our visibility in the global payments industry may also attract terrorists, activists or hackers to attack our facilities or systems, leading to service interruptions, increased costs or data security compromises. additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets. if one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. we, our customers, merchants, and other third parties store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards bearing our brands. in addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use. a breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. in recent years, there have been several high-profile account data compromise events involving merchants and third party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affected millions of mastercard, visa, discover and american express cardholders. as a result of such data security breaches, we may be subject to lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. while most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, in certain circumstances, we could be exposed to damage claims, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our profitability. any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. an increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit or other fraud. as outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. increased fraud levels involving our cards could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation and financial damage, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. if we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenue and income or limit our future growth. the payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a 39 table of contents need for industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes by the complexity of our systems or by intellectual property rights of third parties. we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our operations outside of the united states. during 2010, approximately 58.4% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the united states. some of the revenue we generate outside the united states is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the u.s. dollar. resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into u.s. dollars. the occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business. if we do not adequately manage the changes necessary to implement our strategy, our results of operations may suffer. mastercard continues to experience a significant amount of changes associated with items related to our strategy, including changes in technology, the marketplace, our customers and our products. in particular, our expansion into new businesses could result in unanticipated or unfamiliar issues which may be difficult to manage. if not adequately managed, these changes could result in missed opportunities for the business or could impact the effectiveness of our organization execution of its strategy. as we manage these changes, any difficulty in retaining or attracting key management and employees could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets necessary for the organization effective execution of its strategy. acquisitions or strategic investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition or reputation. although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies. in addition, the integration of any acquisition or investment (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. moreover, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. any of these acquisitions could also result in control issues which could negatively affect our reputation. although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. 40 table of contents risks related to our class a common stock and governance structure future sales of our shares of class a common stock could depress the market price of our class a common stock. the market price of our class a common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us or our stockholders to sell equity securities in the future. as of february 16, 2011, we had 123,656,120 outstanding shares of class a common stock, of which 13,108,364 shares were owned by the mastercard foundation (the foundation ). under the terms of the donation, the foundation became able to sell its shares of our class a common stock commencing on the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the ipo in may 2006 to the extent necessary to comply with charitable disbursement requirements. under canadian tax law, the foundation is generally required each year to disburse at least 3.5% of its assets not used in administration of the foundation in qualified charitable disbursements. however, the foundation has obtained permission from the canadian tax authorities to defer its annual disbursement requirement for up to ten years and meet its total deferred disbursement obligations at the end of the ten-year period. despite this permission to defer annual disbursements, the foundation may decide to meet its disbursement obligations on an annual basis or to settle previously accumulated obligations during any given year. in addition, the foundation will be permitted to sell all of the remaining shares held by it starting twenty years and eleven months after the consummation of the ipo. the market price of our common stock could be volatile. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations and have experienced increased volatility in connection with recent unpredictable economic events around the world. this market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: the continuation of unprecedented economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; changes in earning estimates, investors perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts earning estimates; the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity; potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and developments in our industry. there are terms in our charter documents and under delaware law that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. for example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. further, except in limited circumstances, no member or former member of mastercard international, or any operator, member or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of class a common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. in addition, our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors; 41 table of contents holders of our class a common stock are not entitled to act by written consent; our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year (although pursuant to our amended certificate of incorporation, classes will be phased out through 2013, when each director will be elected each year); any representative of a competitor of mastercard or of the foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors; prior to our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, our directors may be removed only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class. a substantial portion of our voting power is held by the foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. in addition, the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. as of february 16, 2011 the foundation owns 13,108,364 shares of class a common stock, representing approximately 10.6% of our general voting power. the foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of class a common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the ipo, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements. the directors of the foundation are required to be independent of us and our members. the ownership of class a common stock by the foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the class a common stock. in addition, because the foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. our ability to pay regular dividends to our holders of class a common stock and class b common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. mastercard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. the payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. however, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. if, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. we have limited exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. there 72 table of contents were no material changes in our market risk exposures at december 31, 2010 as compared to december 31, 2009. the wall street reform and consumer protection act includes provisions related to derivative financial instruments and the company is determining what impact, if any, such provisions will have on the company financial position or results of operations. foreign exchange risk we enter into forward contracts to manage foreign exchange risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than our functional currencies. we also enter into forward contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. the objective of this activity is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the u.s. dollar and euro. the terms of the forward contracts are generally less than 18 months. the table below shows a summary of derivative contracts classified by functional currency: u.s. dollar functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 36 $ 1 $ 38 $ commitments to sell foreign currency 129 (2 ) 50 (1 ) euro functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to purchase foreign currency $ 2 $ $ 16 $ commitments to sell foreign currency 14 45 u.k. pound sterling functional currency (in millions) december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 notional estimated fair value notional estimated fair value commitments to purchase foreign currency $ $ $ $ commitments to sell foreign currency 5 our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. this risk is limited to the typical one business day timeframe between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions and by confining the supported settlement currencies to the u.s. dollar or one of 16 other transaction currencies. the remaining 134 transaction currencies are settled in one of the supported settlement currencies or require local settlement netting arrangements that minimize our foreign exchange exposure. 73 table of contents interest rate risk our interest rate sensitive assets are our investments in debt securities, which we generally hold as available-for-sale investments. our general policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. the fair value and maturity distribution of the company available for sale investments as of december 31 was as follows: maturity (in millions) financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2010 no contractual maturity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and thereafter municipal bonds fixed interest $ 315 $ $ 8 $ 33 $ 93 $ 69 $ 55 $ 57 short-term bond funds fixed/variable interest 516 516 auction rate securities variable interest 106 106 total $ 937 $ 516 $ 8 $ 33 $ 93 $ 69 $ 55 $ 163 maturity (in millions) financial instrument summary terms fair market value at december 31, 2009 no contractual maturity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter municipal bonds fixed interest $ 514 $ $ 28 $ 97 $ 96 $ 120 $ 80 $ 93 short-term bond funds fixed/variable interest 310 310 auction rate securities variable interest 180 180 total $ 1,004 $ 310 $ 28 $ 97 $ 96 $ 120 $ 80 $ 273 at december 31, 2010, we have a credit facility which provides liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by the company customers. this credit facility has variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. we had no borrowings under this facility at december 31, 2010 or 2009. see note 15 (debt) to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for additional information. equity price risk the company did not have significant equity price risk as of december 31, 2010 and 2009. 74 table of contents